<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VII: Ham and Brandy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ham and Brandy</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Tell me what you eat and I will tell you what you are.”</p>
			<p>Brillat-Savarin</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Wimsey, as Parker was ushered in that same evening by Bunter, “have you got anything fresh?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I’ve got a new theory of the crime, which knocks yours into a cocked hat. I’ve got evidence to support it, too.”</p>
			<p>“Which crime, by the way?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, the Epping Forest business. I don’t believe the old Dawson person was murdered at all. That’s just an idea of yours.”</p>
			<p>“I see. And you’re now going to tell me that Bertha Gotobed was got hold of by the White Slave people.”</p>
			<p>“How did you know?” asked Parker, a little peevishly.</p>
			<p>“Because Scotland Yard have two maggots which crop up whenever anything happens to a young woman. Either it’s White Slavery or Dope Dens⁠—sometimes both. You are going to say it’s both.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I was, as a matter of fact. It so often is, you know. We’ve traced the £5 note.”</p>
			<p>“That’s important, anyhow.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It seems to me to be the clue to the whole thing. It is one of a series paid out to a <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, living in South Audley Street. I’ve been round to make some inquiries.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see the lady?”</p>
			<p>“No, she was out. She usually is, I’m told. In fact, her habits seem to be expensive, irregular and mysterious. She has an elegantly furnished flat over a flower-shop.”</p>
			<p>“A service flat?”</p>
			<p>“No. One of the quiet kind, with a lift you work yourself. She only turns up occasionally, mostly in the evenings, spends a night or two and departs. Food ordered in from Fortnum &amp; Mason’s. Bills paid promptly by note or cheque. Cleaning done by an elderly female who comes in about eleven, by which time <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest has usually gone out.”</p>
			<p>“Doesn’t anybody ever see her?”</p>
			<p>“Oh dear, yes! The people in the flat below and the girl at the flower-shop were able to give me quite a good description of her. Tall, overdressed, musquash and those abbreviated sort of shoes with jewelled heels and hardly any uppers⁠—you know the sort of thing. Heavily peroxided; strong aroma of orifan wafted out upon the passerby; powder too white for the fashion and mouth heavily obscured with sealing-wax red; eyebrows painted black to startle, not deceive; fingernails a monument to Kraska⁠—the pink variety.”</p>
			<p>“I’d no idea you studied the Woman’s Page to such good purpose, Charles.”</p>
			<p>“Drives a Renault Four-seater, dark green with tapestry doings. Garages just round the corner. I’ve seen the man, and he says the car was out on the night of the 27th. Went out at 11.30. Returned about 8 the next morning.”</p>
			<p>“How much petrol had been used?”</p>
			<p>“We worked that out. Just about enough for a run to Epping and back. What’s more, the charwoman says that there had been supper for two in the flat that night, and three bottles of champagne drunk. Also, there is a ham in the flat.”</p>
			<p>“A Bradenham ham?”</p>
			<p>“How do you expect the charwoman to know that? But I think it probably is, as I find from Fortnum &amp; Mason’s that a Bradenham ham was delivered to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest’s address about a fortnight ago.”</p>
			<p>“That sounds conclusive. I take it you think Bertha Gotobed was inveigled there for some undesirable purpose by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, and had supper with her⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No; I should think there was a man.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> F. brings the parties together and leaves them to it. The poor girl is made thoroughly drunk⁠—and then something untoward happens.”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—shock, perhaps, or a shot of dope.”</p>
			<p>“And they bustle her off and get rid of her. It’s quite possible. The postmortem may tell us something about it. Yes, Bunter, what is it?”</p>
			<p>“The telephone, my lord, for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker.”</p>
			<p>“Excuse me,” said Parker, “I asked the people at the flower-shop to ring me up here, if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest came in. If she’s there, would you like to come round with me?”</p>
			<p>“Very much.”</p>
			<p>Parker returned from the telephone with an air of subdued triumph.</p>
			<p>“She’s just gone up to her flat. Come along. We’ll take a taxi⁠—not that death-rattle of yours. Hurry up, I don’t want to miss her.”</p>
			<p>The door of the flat in South Audley Street was opened by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest in person. Wimsey recognised her instantly from the description. On seeing Parker’s card, she made no objection whatever to letting them in, and led the way into a pink and mauve sitting-room, obviously furnished by contract from a Regent Street establishment.</p>
			<p>“Please sit down. Will you smoke? And your friend?”</p>
			<p>“My colleague, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Templeton,” said Parker, promptly. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest’s rather hard eyes appeared to sum up in a practised manner the difference between Parker’s seven-guinea “fashionable lounge suiting, tailored in our own workrooms, fits like a made-to-measure suit,” and his “colleague’s” Savile Row outlines, but beyond a slight additional defensiveness of manner she showed no disturbance. Parker noted the glance. “She’s summing us up professionally,” was his mental comment, “and she’s not quite sure whether Wimsey’s an outraged brother or husband or what. Never mind. Let her wonder. We may get her rattled.”</p>
			<p>“We are engaged, Madam,” he began, with formal severity, “on an inquiry relative to certain events connected with the 26th of last month. I think you were in town at that time?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest frowned slightly in the effort to recollect. Wimsey made a mental note that she was not as young as her bouffant apple-green frock made her appear. She was certainly nearing the thirties, and her eyes were mature and aware.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I think I was. Yes, certainly. I was in town for several days about that time. How can I help you?”</p>
			<p>“It is a question of a certain banknote which has been traced to your possession,” said Parker, “a £5 note numbered x/y58929. It was issued to you by Lloyds Bank in payment of a cheque on the 19th.”</p>
			<p>“Very likely. I can’t say I remember the number, but I think I cashed a cheque about that time. I can tell in a moment by my chequebook.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think it’s necessary. But it would help us very much if you can recollect to whom you paid it.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I see. Well, that’s rather difficult. I paid my dressmaker’s about that time⁠—no, that was by cheque. I paid cash to the garage, I know, and I think there was a £5 note in that. Then I dined at Verry’s with a woman friend⁠—that took the second £5 note, I remember, but there was a third. I drew out £25⁠—three fives and ten ones. Where did the third note go? Oh, of course, how stupid of me! I put it on a horse.”</p>
			<p>“Through a Commission Agent?”</p>
			<p>“No. I had nothing much to do one day, so I went down to Newmarket. I put the £5 on some creature called Brighteye or Attaboy or some name like that, at 50 to 1. Of course the wretched animal didn’t win, they never do. A man in the train gave me the tip and wrote the name down for me. I handed it to the nearest bookie I saw⁠—a funny little grey-haired man with a hoarse voice⁠—and that was the last I saw of it.”</p>
			<p>“Could you remember which day it was?”</p>
			<p>“I think it was Saturday. Yes, I’m sure it was.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest. It will be a great help if we can trace those notes. One of them has turned up since in⁠—other circumstances.”</p>
			<p>“May I know what the circumstances are, or is it an official secret?”</p>
			<p>Parker hesitated. He rather wished, now, that he had demanded point-blank at the start how <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest’s £5 note had come to be found on the dead body of the waitress at Epping. Taken by surprise, the woman might have got flustered. Now, he had let her entrench herself securely behind this horse story. Impossible to follow up the history of a banknote handed to an unknown bookie at a race-meeting. Before he could speak, Wimsey broke in for the first time, in a high, petulant voice which quite took his friend aback.</p>
			<p>“You’re not getting anywhere with all this,” he complained. “I don’t care a continental curse about the beastly note, and I’m sure Sylvia doesn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Who is Sylvia?” demanded <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest with considerable amazement.</p>
			<p>“Who is Sylvia? What is she?” gabbled Wimsey, irrepressibly. “Shakespeare always has the right word, hasn’t he? But, God bless my soul, it’s no laughing matter. It’s very serious and you’ve no business to laugh at it. Sylvia is very much upset, and the doctor is afraid it may have an effect on her heart. You may not know it, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, but Sylvia Lyndhurst is my cousin. And what she wants to know, and what we all want to know⁠—don’t interrupt me, Inspector, all this shilly-shallying doesn’t get us anywhere⁠—I want to know, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, who was it dining here with you on the night of April 26th. Who was it? Who was it? Can you tell me that?”</p>
			<p>This time, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest was visibly taken aback. Even under the thick coat of powder they could see the red flush up into her cheeks and ebb away, while her eyes took on an expression of something more than alarm⁠—a kind of vicious fury, such as one may see in those of a cornered cat.</p>
			<p>“On the 26th?” she faltered. “I can’t⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I knew it!” cried Wimsey. “And that girl Evelyn was sure of it too. Who was it, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest? Answer me that!”</p>
			<p>“There⁠—there was no one,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, with a thick gasp.</p>
			<p>“Oh, come, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest, think again,” said Parker, taking his cue promptly, “you aren’t going to tell us that you accounted by yourself for three bottles of Veuve Clicquot and two people’s dinners.”</p>
			<p>“Not forgetting the ham,” put in Wimsey, with fussy self-importance, “the Bradenham ham specially cooked and sent up by Fortnum &amp; Mason. Now, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Wait a moment. Just a moment. I’ll tell you everything.”</p>
			<p>The woman’s hands clutched at the pink silk cushions, making little hot, tight creases. “I⁠—would you mind getting me something to drink? In the dining-room, through there⁠—on the sideboard.”</p>
			<p>Wimsey got up quickly and disappeared into the next room. He took rather a long time, Parker thought. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest was lying back in a collapsed attitude, but her breathing was more controlled, and she was, he thought, recovering her wits. “Making up a story,” he muttered savagely to himself. However, he could not, without brutality, press her at the moment.</p>
			<p>Lord Peter, behind the folding doors, was making a good deal of noise, chinking the glasses and fumbling about. However, before very long, he was back.</p>
			<p>“ ’Scuse my taking such a time,” he apologised, handing <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest a glass of brandy and soda. “Couldn’t find the syphon. Always was a bit woolgathering, y’know. All my friends say so. Starin’ me in the face all the time, what? And then I sloshed a lot of soda on the sideboard. Hand shakin’. Nerves all to pieces and so on. Feelin’ better? That’s right. Put it down. That’s the stuff to pull you together. How about another little one, what? Oh, rot, it can’t hurt you. Mind if I have one myself? I’m feelin’ a bit flustered. Upsettin’, delicate business and all that. Just another spot. That’s the idea.”</p>
			<p>He trotted out again, glass in hand, while Parker fidgeted. The presence of amateur detectives was sometimes an embarrassment. Wimsey clattered in again, this time, with more common sense, bringing decanter, syphon and three glasses, bodily, on a tray.</p>
			<p>“Now, now,” said Wimsey, “now we’re feeling better, do you think you can answer our question, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest?”</p>
			<p>“May I know, first of all, what right you have to ask it?”</p>
			<p>Parker shot an exasperated glance at his friend. This came of giving people time to think.</p>
			<p>“Right?” burst in Wimsey. “Right? Of course, we’ve a right. The police have a right to ask questions when anything’s the matter. Here’s murder the matter! Right, indeed?”</p>
			<p>“Murder?”</p>
			<p>A curious intent look came into her eyes. Parker could not place it, but Wimsey recognised it instantly. He had seen it last on the face of a great financier as he took up his pen to sign a contract. Wimsey had been called to witness the signature, and had refused. It was a contract that ruined thousands of people. Incidentally, the financier had been murdered soon after, and Wimsey had declined to investigate the matter, with a sentence from Dumas: “Let pass the justice of God.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest was saying, “that in that case I can’t help you. I <em>did</em> have a friend dining with me on the 26th, but he has not, so far as I know, been murdered, nor has he murdered anybody.”</p>
			<p>“It was a man, then?” said Parker.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest bowed her head with a kind of mocking ruefulness. “I live apart from my husband,” she murmured.</p>
			<p>“I am sorry,” said Parker, “to have to press for this gentleman’s name and address.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t that asking rather much? Perhaps if you would give me further details-?”</p>
			<p>“Well, you see,” cut in Wimsey again, “if we could just know for certain it wasn’t Lyndhurst. My cousin is so frightfully upset, as I said, and that Evelyn girl is making trouble. In fact⁠—of course one doesn’t want it to go any further⁠—but actually Sylvia lost her head very completely. She made a savage attack on poor old Lyndhurst⁠—with a revolver, in fact, only fortunately she is a shocking bad shot. It went over his shoulder and broke a vase⁠—most distressin’ thing⁠—a Famille Rose jar, worth thousands⁠—and of course it was smashed to atoms. Sylvia is really hardly responsible when she’s in a temper. And, we thought, as Lyndhurst was actually traced to this block of flats⁠—if you could give us definite proof it wasn’t him, it might calm her down and prevent murder being done, don’t you know. Because, though they might call it Guilty but Insane, still, it would be awfully awkward havin’ one’s cousin in Broadmoor⁠—a first cousin, and really a very nice woman, when she’s not irritated.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest gradually softened into a faint smile.</p>
			<p>“I think I understand the position, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Templeton,” she said, “and if I give you a name, it will be in strict confidence, I presume?”</p>
			<p>“Of course, of course,” said Wimsey. “Dear me, I’m sure it’s uncommonly kind of you.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll swear you aren’t spies of my husband’s?” she said, quickly. “I am trying to divorce him. How do I know this isn’t a trap?”</p>
			<p>“Madam,” said Wimsey, with intense gravity, “I swear to you on my honour as a gentleman that I have not the slightest connection with your husband. I have never even heard of him before.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest shook her head.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think, after all,” she said, “it would be much good my giving you the name. In any case, if you asked him whether he’d been here, he would say no, wouldn’t he? And if you’ve been sent by my husband, you’ve got all the evidence you want already. But I give you my solemn assurance, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Templeton, that I know nothing about your friend, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Lyndhurst⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Major Lyndhurst,” put in Wimsey, plaintively.</p>
			<p>“And if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Lyndhurst is not satisfied, and likes to come round and see me, I will do my best to satisfy her of the fact. Will that do?”</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much,” said Wimsey. “I’m sure it’s as much as anyone could expect. You’ll forgive my abruptness, won’t you? I’m rather⁠—er⁠—nervously constituted, and the whole business is exceedingly upsetting. <em>Good</em> afternoon. Come on, Inspector, it’s quite all right⁠—you see it’s quite all right. I’m really very much obliged⁠—uncommonly so. Please don’t trouble to see us out.”</p>
			<p>He teetered nervously down the narrow hallway, in his imbecile and well-bred way, Parker following with a policeman-like stiffness. No sooner, however, had the flat-door closed behind them than Wimsey seized his friend by the arm and bundled him helter-skelter into the lift.</p>
			<p>“I thought we should never get away,” he panted. “Now, quick⁠—how do we get round to the back of these flats?”</p>
			<p>“What do you want with the back?” demanded Parker, annoyed. “And I wish you wouldn’t stampede me like this. I’ve no business to let you come with me on a job at all, and if I do, you might have the decency to keep quiet.”</p>
			<p>“Right you are,” said Wimsey, cheerfully, “just let’s do this little bit and you can get all the virtuous indignation off your chest later on. Round here, I fancy, up this back alley. Step lively and mind the dustbin. One, two, three, four⁠—here we are! Just keep a lookout for the passing stranger, will you?”</p>
			<p>Selecting a back window which he judged to belong to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest’s flat, Wimsey promptly grasped a drainpipe and began to swarm up it with the agility of a cat-burglar. About fifteen feet from the ground he paused, reached up, appeared to detach something with a quick jerk, and then slid very gingerly to the ground again, holding his right hand at a cautious distance from his body, as though it were breakable.</p>
			<p>And indeed, to his amazement, Parker observed that Wimsey now held a long-stemmed glass in his fingers, similar to those from which they had drunk in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest’s sitting-room.</p>
			<p>“What on earth⁠—?” said Parker.</p>
			<p>“Hush! I’m Hawkshaw the detective⁠—gathering fingerprints. Here we come a-wassailing and gathering prints in May. That’s why I took the glass back. I brought a different one in the second time. Sorry I had to do this athletic stunt, but the only cotton-reel I could find hadn’t much on it. When I changed the glass, I tiptoed into the bathroom and hung it out of the window. Hope she hasn’t been in there since. Just brush my bags down, will you, old man? Gently⁠—don’t touch the glass.”</p>
			<p>“What the devil do you want fingerprints for?”</p>
			<p>“You’re a grateful sort of person. Why, for all you know, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest is someone the Yard has been looking for for years. And anyway, you could compare the prints with those on the Bass bottle, if any. Besides, you never know when fingerprints mayn’t come in handy. They’re excellent things to have about the house. Coast clear? Right. Hail a taxi, will you? I can’t wave my hand with this glass in it. Look so silly, don’t you know. I say!”</p>
			<p>“Well?”</p>
			<p>“I saw something else. The first time I went out for the drinks, I had a peep into her bedroom.”</p>
			<p>“Yes?”</p>
			<p>“What do you think I found in the washstand drawer?”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“A hypodermic syringe!”</p>
			<p>“Really?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, and an innocent little box of ampullae, with a doctor’s prescription headed ‘The injection, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrest. One to be injected when the pain is very severe.’ What do you think of that?”</p>
			<p>“Tell you when we’ve got the results of that postmortem,” said Parker, really impressed. “You didn’t bring the prescription, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“No, and I didn’t inform the lady who we were or what we were after or ask her permission to carry away the family crystal. But I made a note of the chemist’s address.”</p>
			<p>“Did you?” ejaculated Parker. “Occasionally, my lad, you have some glimmerings of sound detective sense.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
