<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI: Crossroads</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<h4 epub:type="title">Crossroads</h4>
			</hgroup>
			<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
				<p>“Patience⁠—and shuffle the cards.”</p>
				<cite>
					<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Don Quixote</i>
				</cite>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Lord Peter took <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper down to Christchurch and returned to town to have a conference with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker. The latter had just listened to his recital of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper’s story, when the discreet opening and closing of the flat door announced the return of Bunter.</p>
			<p>“Any luck?” inquired Wimsey.</p>
			<p>“I regret exceedingly to have to inform your lordship that I lost track of the lady. In fact, if your lordship will kindly excuse the expression, I was completely done in the eye.”</p>
			<p>“Thank God, Bunter, you’re human after all. I didn’t know anybody could do you. Have a drink.”</p>
			<p>“I am much obliged to your lordship. According to instructions, I searched the platform for a lady in a crimson hat and a grey fur, and at length was fortunate enough to observe her making her way out by the station entrance towards the big bookstall. She was some way ahead of me, but the hat was very conspicuous, and, in the words of the poet, if I may so express myself, I followed the gleam.”</p>
			<p>“Stout fellow.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, my lord. The lady walked into the Station Hotel, which, as you know, has two entrances, one upon the platform, and the other upon the street. I hurried after her for fear she should give me the slip, and made my way through the revolving doors just in time to see her back disappearing into the Ladies’ Retiring Room.”</p>
			<p>“Whither, as a modest man, you could not follow her. I quite understand.”</p>
			<p>“Quite so, my lord. I took a seat in the entrance hall, in a position from which I could watch the door without appearing to do so.”</p>
			<p>“And discovered too late that the place had two exits, I suppose. Unusual and distressin’.”</p>
			<p>“No, my lord. That was not the trouble. I sat watching for three quarters of an hour, but the crimson hat did not reappear. Your lordship will bear in mind that I had never seen the lady’s face.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter groaned.</p>
			<p>“I foresee the end of this story, Bunter. Not your fault. Proceed.”</p>
			<p>“At the end of this time, my lord, I felt bound to conclude either that the lady had been taken ill or that something untoward had occurred. I summoned a female attendant who happened to cross the hall and informed her that I had been entrusted with a message for a lady whose dress I described. I begged her to ascertain from the attendant in the Ladies’ Room whether the lady in question was still there. The girl went away and presently returned to say that the lady had changed her costume in the cloakroom and had gone out half an hour previously.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Bunter, Bunter. Didn’t you spot the suitcase or whatever it was when she came out again?”</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, my lord. The lady had come in earlier in the day and had left an attaché-case in charge of the attendant. On returning, she had transferred her hat and fur to the attaché-case and put on a small black felt hat and a lightweight raincoat which she had packed there in readiness. So that her dress was concealed when she emerged and she was carrying the attaché-case, whereas, when I first saw her, she had been empty-handed.”</p>
			<p>“Everything foreseen. What a woman!”</p>
			<p>“I made immediate inquiries, my lord, in the region of the hotel and the station, but without result. The black hat and raincoat were entirely inconspicuous, and no one remembered having seen her. I went to the Central Station to discover if she had travelled by any train. Several women answering to the description had taken tickets for various destinations, but I could get no definite information. I also visited all the garages in Liverpool, with the same lack of success. I am greatly distressed to have failed your lordship.”</p>
			<p>“Can’t be helped. You did everything you could do. Cheer up. Never say die. And you must be tired to death. Take the day off and go to bed.”</p>
			<p>“I thank your lordship, but I slept excellently in the train on the way up.”</p>
			<p>“Just as you like, Bunter. But I did hope you sometimes got tired like other people.”</p>
			<p>Bunter smiled discreetly and withdrew.</p>
			<p>“Well, we’ve gained this much, anyhow,” said Parker. “We know now that this Miss Whittaker has something to conceal, since she takes such precautions to avoid being followed.”</p>
			<p>“We know more than that. We know that she was desperately anxious to get hold of the Cropper woman before anybody else could see her, no doubt to stop her mouth by bribery or by worse means. By the way, how did she know she was coming by that boat?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper sent a cable, which was read at the inquest.”</p>
			<p>“Damn these inquests. They give away all the information one wants kept quiet, and produce no evidence worth having.”</p>
			<p>“Hear, hear,” said Parker, with emphasis, “not to mention that we had to sit through a lot of moral punk by the Coroner, about the prevalence of jazz and the immoral behaviour of modern girls in going off alone with young men to Epping Forest.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a pity these busybodies can’t be had up for libel. Never mind. We’ll get the Whittaker woman yet.”</p>
			<p>“Always provided it was the Whittaker woman. After all, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper may have been mistaken. Lots of people do change their hats in cloakrooms without any criminal intention.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, of course. Miss Whittaker’s supposed to be in the country with Miss Findlater, isn’t she? We’ll get the invaluable Miss Climpson to pump the girl when they turn up again. Meanwhile, what do you think of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper’s story?”</p>
			<p>“There’s no doubt about what happened there. Miss Whittaker was trying to get the old lady to sign a will without knowing it. She gave it to her all mixed up with the income-tax papers, hoping she’d put her name to it without reading it. It must have been a will, I think, because that’s the only document I know of which is invalid unless it’s witnessed by two persons in the presence of the testatrix and of each other.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. And since Miss Whittaker couldn’t be one of the witnesses herself, but had to get the two maids to sign, the will must have been in Miss Whittaker’s favour.”</p>
			<p>“Obviously. She wouldn’t go to all that trouble to disinherit herself.”</p>
			<p>“But that brings us to another difficulty. Miss Whittaker, as next of kin, would have taken all the old lady had to leave in any case. As a matter of fact, she did. Why bother about a will?”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps, as we said before, she was afraid Miss Dawson would change her mind, and wanted to get a will made out before⁠—no, that won’t work.”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—because, anyhow, any will made later would invalidate the first will. Besides, the old lady sent for her solicitor some time later, and Miss Whittaker put no obstacle of any kind in her way.”</p>
			<p>“According to Nurse Forbes, she was particularly anxious that every facility should be given.”</p>
			<p>“Seeing how Miss Dawson distrusted her niece, it’s a bit surprising, really, that she didn’t will the money away. Then it would have been to Miss Whittaker’s advantage to keep her alive as long as possible.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose she really distrusted her⁠—not to the extent of expecting to be made away with. She was excited and said more than she meant⁠—we often do.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but she evidently thought there’d be other attempts to get a will signed.”</p>
			<p>“How do you make that out?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you remember the power of attorney? The old girl evidently thought that out and decided to give Miss Whittaker authority to sign everything for her so that there couldn’t possibly be any jiggery-pokery about papers in future.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. Cute old lady. How very irritating for Miss Whittaker. And after that very hopeful visit of the solicitor, too. So disappointing. Instead of the expected will, a very carefully planted spoke in her wheel.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. But we’re still brought up against the problem, why a will at all?”</p>
			<p>“So we are.”</p>
			<p>The two men pulled at their pipes for some time in silence.</p>
			<p>“The aunt evidently intended the money to go to Mary Whittaker all right,” remarked Parker at last. “She promised it so often⁠—besides, I daresay she was a just-minded old thing, and remembered that it was really Whittaker money which had come to her over the head of the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Charles, or whatever his name was.”</p>
			<p>“That’s so. Well, there’s only one thing that could prevent that happening, and that’s⁠—oh, lord! old son. Do you know what it works out at?⁠—The old, old story, beloved of novelists⁠—the missing heir!”</p>
			<p>“Good lord, yes, you’re right. Damn it all, what fools we were not to think of it before. Mary Whittaker possibly found out that there was some nearer relative left, who would scoop the lot. Maybe she was afraid that if Miss Dawson got to know about it, she’d divide the money or disinherit Mary altogether. Or perhaps she just despaired of hammering the story into the old lady’s head, and so hit on the idea of getting her to make the will unbeknownst to herself in Mary’s favour.”</p>
			<p>“What a brain you’ve got, Charles. Or, see here, Miss Dawson may have known all about it, sly old thing, and determined to pay Miss Whittaker out for her indecent urgency in the matter of will-makin’ by just dyin’ intestate in the other chappie’s favour.”</p>
			<p>“If she did, she deserved anything she got,” said Parker, rather viciously. “After taking the poor girl away from her job under promise of leaving her the dibs.”</p>
			<p>“Teach the young woman not to be so mercenary,” retorted Wimsey, with the cheerful brutality of the man who has never in his life been short of money.</p>
			<p>“If this bright idea is correct,” said Parker, “it rather messes up your murder theory, doesn’t it? Because Mary would obviously take the line of keeping her aunt alive as long as possible, in hopes she might make a will after all.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true. Curse you, Charles, I see that bet of mine going west. What a blow for friend Carr, too. I did hope I was going to vindicate him and have him played home by the village band under a triumphal arch with ‘Welcome, Champion of Truth!’ picked out in red-white-and-blue electric bulbs. Never mind. It’s better to lose a wager and see the light than walk in ignorance bloated with gold.⁠—Or stop!⁠—why shouldn’t Carr be right alter all? Perhaps it’s just my choice of a murderer that’s wrong. Aha! I see a new and even more sinister villain step upon the scene. The new claimant, warned by his minions⁠—”</p>
			<p>“What minions?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t be so pernickety, Charles. Nurse Forbes, probably. I shouldn’t wonder if she’s in his pay. Where was I? I wish you wouldn’t interrupt.”</p>
			<p>“Warned by his minions⁠—” prompted Parker.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes⁠—warned by his minions that Miss Dawson is hobnobbing with solicitors and being tempted into making wills and things, gets the said minions to polish her off before she can do any mischief.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but how?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, by one of those native poisons which slay in a split second and defy the skill of the analyst. They are familiar to the meanest writer of mystery stories. I’m not going to let a trifle like that stand in my way.”</p>
			<p>“And why hasn’t this hypothetical gentleman brought forward any claim to the property so far?”</p>
			<p>“He’s biding his time. The fuss about the death scared him, and he’s lying low till it’s all blown over.”</p>
			<p>“He’ll find it much more awkward to dispossess Miss Whittaker now she’s taken possession. Possession is nine points of the law, you know.”</p>
			<p>“I know, but he’s going to pretend he wasn’t anywhere near at the time of Miss Dawson’s death. He only read about it a few weeks ago in a sheet of newspaper wrapped round a salmon-tin, and now he’s rushing home from his distant farm in thing-ma-jig to proclaim himself as the long-lost Cousin Tom⁠ ⁠… Great Scott! that reminds me.</p>
			<p>He plunged his hand into his pocket and pulled out a letter.</p>
			<p>“This came this morning just as I was going out, and I met Freddy Arbuthnot on the doorstep and shoved it into my pocket before I’d read it properly. But I do believe there was something in it about a Cousin Somebody from some godforsaken spot. Let’s see.”</p>
			<p>He unfolded the letter, which was written in Miss Climpson’s old-fashioned flowing hand, and ornamented with such a variety of underlinings and exclamation marks as to look like an exercise in musical notation.</p>
			<p>“Oh, lord!” said Parker.</p>
			<p>“Yes, it’s worse than usual, isn’t it?⁠—it must be of desperate importance. Luckily it’s comparatively short.”</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">“My dear Lord Peter,</p>
				<p>“I heard something this morning which <b>may</b> be of <em>use</em> so I <b>hasten</b> to communicate it!! You remember I <em>mentioned before</em> that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge’s <em>maid</em> is the <b>sister</b> of the <em>present</em> maid at Miss <em>Whittaker’s</em>? <b>Well!!!</b> The <b>aunt</b> of these two girls came to <em>pay a visit</em> to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge’s girl this afternoon, and was <em>introduced</em> to <em>me</em>⁠—of course, as <em>boarder</em> at <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge’s I am naturally an <em>object of local interest</em>⁠—and, bearing <em>your instructions</em> in mind, I <em>encourage</em> this to an extent I should not otherwise do!!</p>
				<p>“It appears that this <em>aunt</em> was well acquainted with a <em>former housekeeper</em> of Miss Dawson’s⁠—<em>before</em> the time of the Gotobed girls, I mean. The <em>aunt</em> is a highly <em>respectable</em> person of <b>forbidding aspect</b>!⁠—with a <em>bonnet</em> (!), and to my mind, a most <em>disagreeable</em> <b>censorious</b> woman. However!⁠—We got to speaking of Miss Dawson’s death, and this aunt⁠—her name is Timmins⁠—<em>primmed</em> up her mouth and said: ‘No unpleasant scandal would surprise me about <em>that</em> family, Miss Climpson. They were <em>most</em> <b>undesirably</b> connected! You recollect, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge, that I felt <em>obliged to leave</em> after the appearance of that <em>most</em> <b>extraordinary</b> person who announced himself as Miss Dawson’s cousin.’ Naturally, I asked <em>who</em> this <em>might be</em> not having heard of any <em>other relations</em>! She said that this person, whom she described as a <em>nasty</em> <b>dirty</b> <em><b>nigger</b></em> (!!!) arrived one morning, dressed up as a <b>clergyman</b>!!!⁠—and sent her⁠—Miss Timmins⁠—to announce him to Miss Dawson as her <b>Cousin Hallelujah</b>!!! Miss Timmins showed him up, <em>much against her will</em>, she said, into the <em>nice</em> <b>clean</b>, drawing-room!</p>
				<p>Miss Dawson, she said, actually <em>came down</em> to see this ‘creature’ instead of sending him about his ‘black business’ (!), and as a <em>crowning scandal</em>, asked him to <em>stay to lunch</em>!⁠—‘with her niece there, too,’ Miss Timmins said, ‘and this horrible <em>blackamoor</em> <b>rolling</b> his dreadful eyes at her.’ Miss Timmins said that it ‘regularly turned her stomach’⁠—that was her phrase, and I trust you will excuse it⁠—I understand that these <em>parts of the body</em> are frequently referred to in polite (!) society nowadays. In fact, it appears she <em>refused to cook the lunch</em> for the poor black man⁠—(after all, even <em>blacks</em> are <em>God’s creatures</em> and we might <em>all</em> be <em>black</em> <b>ourselves</b> if He had not in His infinite kindness seen fit to <em>favour us</em> with <em>white</em> skins!!)⁠—and walked straight out of the house!!! So that unfortunately she cannot tell us anything <em>further</em> about this <em>remarkable</em> incident! She is <em>certain</em>, however, that the ‘<em>nigger</em>’ had a <em>visiting-card</em> with the name ‘<abbr>Rev.</abbr> H. Dawson’ upon it, and an address in foreign parts. It does seem <em>strange</em>, does it not, but I believe many of these <em>native preachers</em> are called to do <em>splendid work</em> among their own people, and no doubt a <b>minister</b> is entitled to have a <em>visiting-card</em>, even when black!!!</p>
				<footer>
					<p>“In great haste,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">“Sincerely yours,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">“A. K. Climpson.”</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“God bless my soul,” said Lord Peter, when he had disentangled this screed⁠—“here’s our claimant ready made.”</p>
			<p>“With a hide as black as his heart, apparently,” replied Parker. “I wonder where the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah has got to⁠—and where he came from. He⁠—er⁠—he wouldn’t be in ‘Crockford,’ I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“He would be, probably, if he’s Church of England,” said Lord Peter, dubiously, going in search of that valuable work of reference. “Dawson⁠—<abbr>Rev.</abbr> George, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Gordon, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Gurney, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Habbakuk, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Hadrian, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Hammond⁠—no, there’s no <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah. I was afraid the name hadn’t altogether an established sound. It would be easier if we had an idea what part of the world the gentleman came from. ‘Nigger,’ to a Miss Timmins, may mean anything from a high-caste Brahmin to Sambo and Rastus at the Coliseum⁠—it may even, at a pinch, be an Argentine or an Eskimo.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose other religious bodies have their Crockfords,” suggested Parker, a little hopelessly.</p>
			<p>“Yes, no doubt⁠—except perhaps the more exclusive sects⁠—like the Agapemonites and those people who gather together to say <b>om</b>. Was it Voltaire who said that the English had three hundred and sixty-five religions and only one sauce?”</p>
			<p>“Judging from the War Tribunals,” said Parker, “I should say that was an understatement. And then there’s America⁠—a country, I understand, remarkably well supplied with religions.”</p>
			<p>“Too true. Hunting for a single dog-collar in the States must be like the proverbial needle. Still, we could make a few discreet inquiries, and meanwhile I’m going to totter up to Crofton with the jolly old bus.”</p>
			<p>“Crofton?”</p>
			<p>“Where Miss Clara Whittaker and Miss Dawson used to live. I’m going to look for the man with the little black bag⁠—the strange, suspicious solicitor, you remember, who came to see Miss Dawson two years ago, and was so anxious that she should make a will. I fancy he knows all there is to know about the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah and his claim. Will you come too?”</p>
			<p>“Can’t⁠—not without special permission. I’m not officially on this case, you know.”</p>
			<p>“You’re on the Gotobed business. Tell the Chief you think they’re connected. I shall need your restraining presence. No less ignoble pressure than that of the regular police force will induce a smoke-dried family lawyer to spill the beans.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll try⁠—if you’ll promise to drive with reasonable precaution.”</p>
			<p>“Be thou as chaste as ice and have a licence as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. I am <em>not</em> a dangerous driver. Buck up and get your leave. The snow-white horsepower foams and frets and the blue bonnet⁠—black in this case⁠—is already, in a manner of speaking, over the border.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll drive me over the border one of these days,” grumbled Parker, and went to the phone to call up Sir Andrew Mackenzie at Scotland Yard.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Crofton is a delightful little old-world village, tucked away amid the maze of crisscross country roads which fills the triangle of which Coventry, Warwick and Birmingham mark the angles. Through the falling night, “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Merdle” purred her away delicately round hedge-blinded corners and down devious lanes, her quest made no easier by the fact that the Warwick County Council had pitched upon that particular week for a grand repainting of signposts and had reached the preliminary stage of laying a couple of thick coats of gleaming white paint over all the lettering. At intervals the patient Bunter unpacked himself from the back seat and climbed one of these uncommunicative guides to peer at its blank surface with a torch⁠—a process which reminded Parker of Alan Quartermaine trying to trace the features of the departed Kings of the Kukuanas under their calcareous shrouds of stalactite. One of the posts turned out to be in the wet-paint stage, which added to the depression of the party. Finally, after several misdirections, blind alleys and reversings back to the main road, they came to a fourways. The signpost here must have been in extra need of repairs, for its arms had been removed bodily; it stood, stark and ghastly⁠—a long, livid finger erected in wild protest to the unsympathetic heavens.</p>
			<p>“It’s starting to rain,” observed Parker, conversationally.</p>
			<p>“Look here, Charles, if you’re going to bear up cheerfully and be the life and soul of the expedition, say so and have done with it. I’ve got a good, heavy spanner handy under the seat, and Bunter can help to bury the body.”</p>
			<p>“I think this must be Brushwood Cross,” resumed Parker, who had the map on his knee. “If so, and if it’s not Covert Corner, which I thought we passed half an hour ago, one of these roads leads directly to Crofton.”</p>
			<p>“That would be highly encouraging if we only knew which road we were on.”</p>
			<p>“We can always try them in turn, and come back if we find we’re going wrong.”</p>
			<p>“They bury <em>suicides</em> at crossroads,” replied Wimsey, dangerously.</p>
			<p>“There’s a man sitting under that tree,” pursued Parker. “We can ask him.”</p>
			<p>“He’s lost his way too, or he wouldn’t be sitting there,” retorted the other. “People don’t sit about in the rain for fun.”</p>
			<p>At this moment the man observed their approach and, rising, advanced to meet them with raised, arresting hand. Wimsey brought the car to a standstill.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me,” said the stranger, who turned out to be a youth in motorcycling kit, “but could you give me a hand with my bus?”</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter with her?”</p>
			<p>“Well, she won’t go.”</p>
			<p>“I guessed as much,” said Wimsey. “Though why she should wish to linger in a place like this beats me.” He got out of the car, and the youth, diving into the hedge, produced the patient for inspection.</p>
			<p>“Did you tumble there or put her there?” inquired Wimsey, eyeing the machine distastefully.</p>
			<p>“I put her there. I’ve been kicking the starter for hours but nothing happened, so I thought I’d wait till somebody came along.”</p>
			<p>“I see. What is the matter, exactly?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. She was going beautifully and then she conked out suddenly.”</p>
			<p>“Have you run out of petrol?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no. I’m sure there’s plenty in.”</p>
			<p>“Plug all right?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know.” The youth looked unhappy. “It’s only my second time out, you see.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! well⁠—there can’t be much wrong. We’ll just make sure about the petrol first,” said Wimsey, more cheerfully. He unscrewed the filler-cap and turned his torch upon the interior of the tank. “Seems all right.” He bent over again, whistling, and replaced the cap. “Let’s give her another kick for luck and then we’ll look at the plug.”</p>
			<p>The young man, thus urged, grasped the handlebars, and with the energy of despair delivered a kick which would have done credit to an army mule. The engine roared into life in a fury of vibration, racing heart-rendingly.</p>
			<p>“Good God!” said the youth, “it’s a miracle.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter laid a gentle hand on the throttle-lever and the shattering bellow calmed into a grateful purr.</p>
			<p>“What did you do to it?” demanded the cyclist.</p>
			<p>“Blew through the filler-cap,” said his lordship with a grin. “Airlock in the feed, old son, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“I’m frightfully grateful.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right. Look here, can you tell us the way to Crofton?”</p>
			<p>“Sure. Straight down here. I’m going there, as a matter of fact.”</p>
			<p>“Thank Heaven. Lead and I follow, as Sir Galahad says. How far?”</p>
			<p>“Five miles.”</p>
			<p>“Decent inn?”</p>
			<p>“My governor keeps the ‘Fox-and-Hounds.’ Would that do? We’d give you awfully decent grub.”</p>
			<p>“Sorrow vanquished, labour ended, Jordan passed. Buzz off, my lad. No, Charles, I will <em>not</em> wait while you put on a Burberry. Back and side go bare, go bare, hand and foot go cold, so belly-god send us good ale enough, whether it be new or old.”</p>
			<p>The starter hummed⁠—the youth mounted his machine and led off down the lane after one alarming wobble⁠—Wimsey slipped in the clutch and followed in his wake.</p>
			<p>The “Fox-and-Hounds” turned out to be one of those pleasant, old-fashioned inns where everything is upholstered in horsehair and it is never too late to obtain a good meal of cold roast sirloin and homegrown salad. The landlady, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Piggin, served the travellers herself. She wore a decent black satin dress and a front of curls of the fashion favoured by the Royal Family. Her round, cheerful face glowed in the firelight, seeming to reflect the radiance of the scarlet-coated huntsmen who galloped and leapt and fell on every wall through a series of sporting prints. Lord Peter’s mood softened under the influence of the atmosphere and the house’s excellent ale, and by a series of inquiries directed to the hunting-season, just concluded, the neighbouring families and the price of horseflesh, he dexterously led the conversation round to the subject of the late Miss Clara Whittaker.</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear, yes,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Piggin, “to be sure, we knew Miss Whittaker. Everybody knew her in these parts. A wonderful old lady she was. There’s a many of her horses still in the country. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Cleveland, he bought the best part of the stock, and is doin’ well with them. Fine honest stock she bred, and they all used to say she was a woman of wonderful judgment with a horse⁠—or a man either. Nobody ever got the better of her twice, and very few, once.”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” said Lord Peter, sagaciously.</p>
			<p>“I remember her well, riding to hounds when she was well over sixty,” went on <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Piggin, “and she wasn’t one to wait for a gap, neither. Now Miss Dawson⁠—that was her friend as lived with her⁠—over at the Manor beyond the stone bridge⁠—she was more timid-like. She’d go by the gates, and we often used to say she’d never be riding at all, but for bein’ that fond of Miss Whittaker and not wanting to let her out of her sight. But there, we can’t all be alike, can we, sir?⁠—and Miss Whittaker was altogether out of the way. They don’t make them like that nowadays. Not but what these modern girls are good goers, many of them, and does a lot of things as would have been thought very fast in the old days, but Miss Whittaker had the knowledge as well. Bought her own horses and physicked ’em and bred ’em, and needed no advice from anybody.”</p>
			<p>“She sounds a wonderful old girl,” said Wimsey, heartily. “I’d have liked to know her. I’ve got some friends who knew Miss Dawson quite well⁠—when she was living in Hampshire, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed, sir? Well, that’s strange, isn’t it? She was a very kind, nice lady. We heard she’d died, too. Of this cancer, was it? That’s a terrible thing, poor soul. And fancy you being connected with her, so to speak. I expect you’d be interested in some of our photographs of the Crofton Hunt. Jim?”</p>
			<p>“Hullo!”</p>
			<p>“Show these gentlemen the photographs of Miss Whittaker and Miss Dawson. They’re acquainted with some friends of Miss Dawson down in Hampshire. Step this way⁠—if you’re sure you won’t take anything more, sir.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Piggin led the way into a cosy little private bar, where a number of hunting-looking gentlemen were enjoying a final glass before closing-time. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Piggin, stout and genial as his wife, moved forward to do the honours.</p>
			<p>“What’ll you have, gentlemen?⁠—Joe, two pints of the winter ale. And fancy you knowing our Miss Dawson. Dear me, the world’s a very small place, as I often says to my wife. Here’s the last group as was ever took of them, when the meet was held at the Manor in 1918. Of course, you’ll understand, it wasn’t a regular meet, like, owing to the War and the gentlemen being away and the horses too⁠—we couldn’t keep things up regular like in the old days. But what with the foxes gettin’ so terrible many, and the packs all going to the dogs⁠—ha! ha!⁠—that’s what I often used to say in this bar⁠—the ’ounds is going to the dogs, I says. Very good, they used to think it. There’s many a gentleman has laughed at me sayin’ that⁠—the ’ounds, I says, is goin’ to the dogs⁠—well, as I was sayin’, Colonel Fletcher and some of the older gentlemen, they says, we must carry on somehow, they says, and so they ’ad one or two scratch meets as you might say, just to keep the pack from fallin’ to pieces, as you might say. And Miss Whittaker, she says, ‘ ’Ave the meet at the Manor, Colonel,’ she says, ‘it’s the last meet I’ll ever see, perhaps,’ she says. And so it was, poor lady, for she ’ad a stroke in the New Year. She died in 1922. That’s ’er, sitting in the pony-carriage and Miss Dawson beside ’er. Of course, Miss Whittaker ’ad ’ad to give up riding to ’ounds some years before. She was gettin’ on, but she always followed in the trap, up to the very last. ’Andsome old lady, ain’t she, sir?”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter and Parker looked with considerable interest at the rather grim old woman sitting so uncompromisingly upright with the reins in her hand. A dour, weather-beaten old face, but certainly handsome still, with its large nose and straight, heavy eyebrows. And beside her, smaller, plumper and more feminine, was the Agatha Dawson whose curious death had led them to this quiet country place. She had a sweet, smiling face⁠—less dominating than that of her redoubtable friend, but full of spirit and character. Without doubt they had been a remarkable pair of old ladies.</p>
			<p>Lord Peter asked a question or two about the family.</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, I can’t say as I knows much about that. We always understood as Miss Whittaker had quarrelled with her people on account of comin’ here and settin’ up for herself. It wasn’t usual in them days for girls to leave home the way it is now. But if you’re particularly interested, sir, there’s an old gentleman here as can tell you all about the Whittakers and the Dawsons too, and that’s Ben Cobling. He was Miss Whittaker’s groom for forty years, and he married Miss Dawson’s maid as come with her from Norfolk. Eighty-six ’e was, last birthday, but a grand old fellow still. We thinks a lot of Ben Cobling in these parts. ’Im and his wife lives in the little cottage what Miss Whittaker left them when she died. If you’d like to go round and see them tomorrow, sir, you’ll find Ben’s memory as good as ever it was. Excuse me, sir, but it’s time. I must get ’em out of the bar.⁠—Time, gentlemen, please! Three and eightpence, sir, thank you, sir. Hurry up, gentlemen, please. Now then, Joe, look sharp.”</p>
			<p>“Great place, Crofton,” said Lord Peter, when he and Parker were left alone in a great, low-ceilinged bedroom, where the sheets smelt of lavender. “Ben Cobling’s sure to know all about Cousin Hallelujah. I’m looking forward to Ben Cobling.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
