<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: The Country Lawyer’s Story</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<h4 epub:type="title">The Country Lawyer’s Story</h4>
			</hgroup>
			<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
				<p>“And he that gives us in these days new lords may give us new laws.”</p>
				<cite>Wither: <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Contented Man’s Morrice</i></cite>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="letter-title">Letter from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn, retired Solicitor, of Villa Bianca, Fiesole to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murbles, Solicitor, of Staple Inn.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p class="letter-title">“<em>Private and confidential</em></p>
				</header>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">“Dear Sir,</p>
				<p>“I was much interested in your letter relative to the death of Miss Agatha Dawson, late of Leahampton, and will do my best to answer your inquiries as briefly as possible, always, of course, on the understanding that all information as to the affairs of my late client will be treated as strictly confidential. I make an exception, of course, in favour of the police officer you mention in connection with the matter.</p>
				<p>“You wish to know (1) whether Miss Agatha Dawson was aware that it might possibly prove necessary, under the provisions of the new Act, for her to make a testamentary disposition, in order to ensure that her great-niece, Miss Mary Whittaker, should inherit her personal property. (2) Whether I ever urged her to make this testamentary disposition and what her reply was. (3) Whether I had made Miss Mary Whittaker aware of the situation in which she might be placed, supposing her great-aunt to die intestate later than December 31, 1925.</p>
				<p>“In the course of the Spring of 1925, my attention was called by a learned friend to the ambiguity of the wording of certain clauses in the Act, especially in respect of the failure to define the precise interpretation to be placed on the word ‘Issue.’ I immediately passed in review the affairs of my various clients, with a view to satisfying myself that the proper dispositions had been made in each case to avoid misunderstanding and litigation in case of intestacy. I at once realised that Miss Whittaker’s inheritance of Miss Dawson’s property entirely depended on the interpretation given to the clauses in question. I was aware that Miss Dawson was extremely averse from making a will, owing to that superstitious dread of decease which we meet with so frequently in our profession. However, I thought it my duty to make her understand the question and to do my utmost to get a will signed. Accordingly, I went down to Leahampton and laid the matter before her. This was on March the 14th, or thereabouts⁠—I am not certain to the precise day.</p>
				<p>“Unhappily, I encountered Miss Dawson at a moment when her opposition to the obnoxious idea of making a will was at its strongest. Her doctor had informed her that a further operation would become necessary in the course of the next few weeks, and I could have selected no more unfortunate occasion for intruding the subject of death upon her mind. She resented any such suggestion⁠—there was a conspiracy, she declared, to frighten her into dying under the operation. It appears that that very tactless practitioner of hers had frightened her with a similar suggestion before her previous operation. But she had come through that and she meant to come through this, if only people would not anger and alarm her.</p>
				<p>“Of course, if she <em>had</em> died under the operation, the whole question would have settled itself and there would have been no need of any will. I pointed out that the very reason why I was anxious for the will to be made was that I fully expected her to live on into the following year, and I explained the provisions of the Act once more, as clearly as I could. She retorted that in that case I had no business to come and trouble her about the question at all. It would be time enough when the Act was passed.</p>
				<p>“Naturally, the fool of a doctor had insisted that she was not to be told what her disease was⁠—they always do⁠—and she was convinced that the next operation would make all right and that she would live for years. When I ventured to insist⁠—giving as my reason that we men of law always preferred to be on the safe and cautious side, she became exceedingly angry with me, and practically ordered me out of the house. A few days afterwards I received a letter from her, complaining of my impertinence, and saying that she could no longer feel any confidence in a person who treated her with such inconsiderate rudeness. At her request, I forwarded all her private papers in my possession to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hodgson, of Leahampton, and I have not held any communication with any member of the family since that date.</p>
				<p>“This answers your first and second questions. With regard to the third: I certainly did not think it proper to inform Miss Whittaker that her inheritance might depend upon her great-aunt’s either making a will or else dying before December 31, 1925. While I know nothing to the young lady’s disadvantage, I have always held it inadvisable that persons should know too exactly how much they stand to gain by the unexpected decease of other persons. In case of any unforeseen accident, the heirs may find themselves in an equivocal position, where the fact of their possessing such knowledge might⁠—if made public⁠—be highly prejudicial to their interests. The most that I thought it proper to say was that if at any time Miss Dawson should express a wish to see me, I should like to be sent for without delay. Of course, the withdrawal of Miss Dawson’s affairs from my hands put it out of my power to interfere any further.</p>
				<p>“In October, 1925, feeling that my health was not what it had been, I retired from business and came to Italy. In this country the English papers do not always arrive regularly, and I missed the announcement of Miss Dawson’s death. That it should have occurred so suddenly and under circumstances somewhat mysterious, is certainly interesting.</p>
				<p>“You say further that you would be glad of my opinion on Miss Agatha Dawson’s mental condition at the time when I last saw her. It was perfectly clear and competent⁠—in so far as she was ever competent to deal with business. She was in no way gifted to grapple with legal problems, and I had extreme difficulty in getting her to understand what the trouble was with regard to the new Property Act. Having been brought up all her life to the idea that property went of right to the next of kin, she found it inconceivable that this state of things should ever alter. She assured me that the law would never permit the Government to pass such an Act. When I had reluctantly persuaded her that it would, she was quite sure that no court would be wicked enough to interpret the Act so as to give the money to anybody but Miss Whittaker, when she was clearly the proper person to have it. ‘Why should the Duchy of Lancaster have any right to it?’ she kept on saying. ‘I don’t even know the Duke of Lancaster.’ She was not a particularly sensible woman, and in the end I was not at all sure that I had made her comprehend the situation⁠—quite apart from the dislike she had of pursuing the subject. However, there is no doubt that she was then quite <span xml:lang="la">compos mentis</span> My reason for urging her to make the will before her final operation was, of course, that I feared she might subsequently lose the use of her faculties, or⁠—which comes to the same thing from a business point of view⁠—might have to be kept continually under the influence of opiates.</p>
				<p>“Trusting that you will find here the information you require,</p>
				<footer>
					<p>“I remain,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">“Yours faithfully,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">“<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Thos.</abbr> Probyn.”</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murbles read this letter through twice, very thoughtfully. To even his cautious mind, the thing began to look like the makings of a case. In his neat, elderly hand, he wrote a little note to Detective-Inspector Parker, begging him to call at Staple Inn at his earliest convenience.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker, however, was experiencing nothing at that moment but inconvenience. He had been calling on solicitors for two whole days, and his soul sickened at the sight of a brass plate. He glanced at the long list in his hand, and distastefully counted up the scores of names that still remained unticked.</p>
			<p>Parker was one of those methodical, painstaking people whom the world could so ill spare. When he worked with Wimsey on a case, it was an understood thing that anything lengthy, intricate, tedious and soul-destroying was done by Parker. He sometimes felt that it was irritating of Wimsey to take this so much for granted. He felt so now. It was a hot day. The pavements were dusty. Pieces of paper blew about the streets. Buses were grilling outside and stuffy inside. The Express Dairy, where Parker was eating a hurried lunch, seemed full of the odours of fried plaice and boiling tea-urns. Wimsey, he knew, was lunching at his club, before running down with Freddy Arbuthnot to see the New Zealanders at somewhere or other. He had seen him⁠—a vision of exquisite pale grey, ambling gently along Pall Mall. Damn Wimsey! Why couldn’t he have let Miss Dawson rest quietly in her grave? There she was, doing no harm to anybody⁠—and Wimsey must insist on prying into her affairs and bringing the inquiry to such a point that Parker simply had to take official notice of it. Oh well! he supposed he must go on with these infernal solicitors.</p>
			<p>He was proceeding on a system of his own, which might or might not prove fruitful. He had reviewed the subject of the new Property Act, and decided that if and when Miss Whittaker had become aware of its possible effect on her own expectations, she would at once consider taking legal advice.</p>
			<p>Her first thought would no doubt be to consult a solicitor in Leahampton, and unless she already had the idea of foul play in her mind, there was nothing to deter her from doing so. Accordingly, Parker’s first move had been to run down to Leahampton and interview the three firms of solicitors there. All three were able to reply quite positively that they had never received such an inquiry from Miss Whittaker, or from anybody, during the year 1925. One solicitor, indeed⁠—the senior partner of Hodgson &amp; Hodgson, to whom Miss Dawson had entrusted her affairs after her quarrel with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn⁠—looked a little oddly at Parker when he heard the question.</p>
			<p>“I assure you, Inspector,” he said, “that if the point had been brought to my notice in such a way, I should certainly have remembered it, in the light of subsequent events.”</p>
			<p>“The matter never crossed your mind, I suppose,” said Parker, “when the question arose of winding up the estate and proving Miss Whittaker’s claim to inherit?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t say it did. Had there been any question of searching for next-of-kin it might⁠—I don’t say it would⁠—have occurred to me. But I had a very clear history of the family connections from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn, the death took place nearly two months before the Act came into force, and the formalities all went through more or less automatically. In fact, I never thought about the Act one way or another in that connection.”</p>
			<p>Parker said he was not surprised to hear it, and favoured <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hodgson with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Towkington’s learned opinion on the subject, which interested <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hodgson very much. And that was all he got at Leahampton, except that he fluttered Miss Climpson very much by calling upon her and hearing all about her interview with Vera Findlater. Miss Climpson walked to the station with him, in the hope that they might meet Miss Whittaker⁠—“I am sure you would be <em>interested</em> to <em>see</em> her”⁠—but they were unlucky. On the whole, thought Parker, it might be just as well. After all, though he would like to see Miss Whittaker, he was not particularly keen on her seeing him, especially in Miss Climpson’s company. “By the way,” he said to Miss Climpson, “you had better explain me in some way to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge, or she may be a bit inquisitive.”</p>
			<p>“But I <em>have</em>,” replied Miss Climpson, with an engaging giggle, “when <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge said there was a <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker to see me, of course I realised at <em>once</em> that she mustn’t know <em>who</em> you were, so I said, quite quickly, ‘<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker! Oh, that must be my nephew Adolphus.’ You don’t mind being Adolphus, do you? It’s funny, but that was the <em>only</em> name that came into my mind at the moment. I can’t <em>think</em> why, for I’ve never known an Adolphus.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Climpson” said Parker, solemnly, “you are a marvellous woman, and I wouldn’t mind even if you’d called me Marmaduke.”</p>
			<p>So here he was, working out his second line of inquiry. If Miss Whittaker did not go to a Leahampton solicitor, to whom would she go? There was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn, of course, but he did not think she would have selected him. She would not have known him at Crofton, of course⁠—she had never actually lived with her great-aunts. She had met him the day he came down to Leahampton to see Miss Dawson. He had not then taken her into his confidence about the object of his visit, but she must have known from what her aunt said that it had to do with the making of a will. In the light of her new knowledge, she would guess that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn had then had the Act in his mind, and had not thought fit to trust her with the facts. If she asked him now, he would probably reply that Miss Dawson’s affairs were no longer in his hands, and refer her to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hodgson. And besides, if she asked the question and anything were to happen⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn might remember it. No, she would not have approached <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Probyn.</p>
			<p>What then?</p>
			<p>To the person who has anything to conceal⁠—to the person who wants to lose his identity as one leaf among the leaves of a forest⁠—to the person who asks no more than to pass by and be forgotten, there is one name above others which promises a haven of safety and oblivion. London. Where no one knows his neighbour. Where shops do not know their customers. Where physicians are suddenly called to unknown patients whom they never see again. Where you may lie dead in your house for months together unmissed and unnoticed till the gas-inspector comes to look at the meter. Where strangers are friendly and friends are casual. London, whose rather untidy and grubby bosom is the repository of so many odd secrets. Discreet, incurious and all-enfolding London.</p>
			<p>Not that Parker put it that way to himself. He merely thought, “Ten to one she’d try London. They mostly think they’re safer there.”</p>
			<p>Miss Whittaker knew London, of course. She had trained at the Royal Free. That meant she would know Bloomsbury better than any other district. For nobody knew better than Parker how rarely Londoners move out of their own particular little orbit. Unless, of course, she had at some time during her time at the hospital been recommended to a solicitor in another quarter, the chances were that she would have gone to a solicitor in the Bloomsbury or Holborn district.</p>
			<p>Unfortunately for Parker, this is a quarter which swarms with solicitors. Gray’s Inn Road, Gray’s Inn itself, Bedford Row, Holborn, Lincoln’s Inn⁠—the brass plates grow all about as thick as blackberries.</p>
			<p>Which was why Parker was feeling so hot, tired and fed-up that June afternoon.</p>
			<p>With an impatient grunt he pushed away his eggy plate, paid-at-the-desk-please, and crossed the road towards Bedford Row, which he had marked down as his portion for the afternoon.</p>
			<p>He started at the first solicitor’s he came to, which happened to be the office of one J. F. Trigg. He was lucky. The youth in the outer office informed him that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg had just returned from lunch, was disengaged, and would see him. Would he walk in?</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg was a pleasant, fresh-faced man in his early forties. He begged <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker to be seated and asked what he could do for him.</p>
			<p>For the thirty-seventh time, Parker started on the opening gambit which he had devised to suit his purpose.</p>
			<p>“I am only temporarily in London, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg, and finding I needed legal advice I was recommended to you by a man I met in a restaurant. He did give me his name, but it has escaped me, and anyway, it’s of no great importance, is it? The point is this. My wife and I have come up to Town to see her great-aunt, who is in a very bad way. In fact, she isn’t expected to live.</p>
			<p>“Well, now, the old lady has always been very fond of my wife, don’t you see, and it has always been an understood thing that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Parker was to come into her money when she died. It’s quite a tidy bit, and we have been⁠—I won’t say looking forward to it, but in a kind of mild way counting on it as something for us to retire upon later on. You understand. There aren’t any other relations at all, so, though the old lady has often talked about making a will, we didn’t worry much, one way or the other, because we took it for granted my wife would come in for anything there was. But we were talking about it to a friend yesterday, and he took us rather aback by saying that there was a new law or something, and that if my wife’s great-aunt hadn’t made a will we shouldn’t get anything at all. I think he said it would all go to the Crown. I didn’t think that could be right and told him so, but my wife is a bit nervous⁠—there are the children to be considered, you see⁠—and she urged me to get legal advice, because her great-aunt may go off at any minute, and we don’t know whether there is a will or not. Now, how does a great-niece stand under the new arrangements?”</p>
			<p>“The point has not been made very clear,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg, “but my advice to you is, to find out whether a will has been made and if not, to get one made without delay if the testatrix is capable of making one. Otherwise I think there is a very real danger of your wife’s losing her inheritance.”</p>
			<p>“You seem quite familiar with the question,” said Parker, with a smile; “I suppose you are always being asked it since this new Act came in?”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t say ‘always.’ It is comparatively rare for a great-niece to be left as sole next-of-kin.”</p>
			<p>“Is it? Well, yes, I should think it must be. Do you remember being asked that question in the summer of 1925, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg?”</p>
			<p>A most curious expression came over the solicitor’s face⁠—it looked almost like alarm.</p>
			<p>“What makes you ask that?”</p>
			<p>“You need have no hesitation in answering,” said Parker, taking out his official card. “I am a police officer and have a good reason for asking. I put the legal point to you first as a problem of my own, because I was anxious to have your professional opinion first.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Well, Inspector, in that case I suppose I am justified in telling you all about it. I <em>was</em> asked that question in June, 1925.”</p>
			<p>“Do you remember the circumstances?”</p>
			<p>“Clearly. I am not likely to forget them⁠—or rather, the sequel to them.”</p>
			<p>“That sounds interesting. Will you tell the story in your own way and with all the details you can remember?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. Just a moment.” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg put his head out into the outer office. “Badcock, I am engaged with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker and can’t see anybody. Now, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker, I am at your service. Won’t you smoke?”</p>
			<p>Parker accepted the invitation and lit up his well-worn briar, while <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Trigg, rapidly smoking cigarette after cigarette, unfolded his remarkable story.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
