<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XII: A Tale of Two Spinsters</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Tale of Two Spinsters</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“The power of perpetuating our property in our families is one of the most valuable and interesting circumstances belonging to it.”</p>
			<p>Burke: <em>Reflections on the Revolution</em></p>
			<p>The rainy night was followed by a sun-streaked morning. Lord Peter, having wrapped himself affectionately round an abnormal quantity of bacon and eggs, strolled out to bask at the door of the “Fox-and-Hounds.” He filled a pipe slowly and meditated. Within, a cheerful bustle in the bar announced the near arrival of opening time. Eight ducks crossed the road in Indian file. A cat sprang up upon the bench, stretched herself, tucked her hind legs under her and coiled her tail tightly round them as though to prevent them from accidentally working loose. A groom passed, riding a tall bay horse and leading a chestnut with a hogged mane; a spaniel followed them, running ridiculously, with one ear flopped inside-out over his foolish head.</p>
			<p>Lord Peter said, “Hah!”</p>
			<p>The inn-door was set hospitably open by the barman, who said, “Good morning, sir; fine morning, sir,” and vanished within again.</p>
			<p>Lord Peter said, “Umph.” He uncrossed his right foot from over his left and straddled happily across the threshold.</p>
			<p>Round the corner by the church-yard wall a little bent figure hove into sight⁠—an aged man with a wrinkled face and legs incredibly bowed, his spare shanks enclosed in leather gaiters. He advanced at a kind of brisk totter and civilly bared his ancient head before lowering himself with an audible creak on to the bench beside the cat.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, sir,” said he.</p>
			<p>“Good morning,” said Lord Peter. “A beautiful day.”</p>
			<p>“That it be, sir, that it be,” said the old man, heartily. “When I sees a beautiful May day like this, I pray the Lord He’ll spare me to live in this wonderful world of His a few years longer. I do indeed.”</p>
			<p>“You look uncommonly fit,” said his lordship, “I should think there was every chance of it.”</p>
			<p>“I’m still very hearty, sir, thank you, though I’m eighty-seven next Michaelmas.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter expressed a proper astonishment.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, eighty-seven, and if it wasn’t for the rheumatics I’d have nothin’ to complain on. I’m stronger maybe than what I look. I knows I’m a bit bent, sir, but that’s the ’osses, sir, more than age. Regular brought up with ’osses I’ve been all my life. Worked with ’em, slept with ’em⁠—lived in a stable, you might say, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You couldn’t have better company,” said Lord Peter.</p>
			<p>“That’s right, sir, you couldn’t. My wife always used to say she was jealous of the ’osses. Said I preferred their conversation to hers. Well, maybe she was right, sir. A ’oss never talks no foolishness, I says to her, and that’s more than you can always say of women, ain’t it, sir?”</p>
			<p>“It is indeed,” said Wimsey. “What are you going to have?”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir, I’ll have my usual pint of bitter. Jim knows. Jim! Always start the day with a pint of bitter, sir. It’s ’olesomer than tea to my mind and don’t fret the coats of the stomach.”</p>
			<p>“I dare say you’re right,” said Wimsey. “Now you mention it, there is something fretful about tea. Mr. Piggin, two pints of bitter, please, and will you join us?”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, my lord,” said the landlord. “Joe! Two large bitters and a Guinness. Beautiful morning, my lord⁠—‘morning, Mr. Cobling⁠—I see you’ve made each other’s acquaintance already.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove! so this is Mr. Cobling. I’m delighted to see you. I wanted particularly to have a chat with you.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I was telling this gentleman⁠—Lord Peter Wimsey his name is⁠—as you could tell him all about Miss Whittaker and Miss Dawson. He knows friends of Miss Dawson’s.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed? Ah! There ain’t much I <em>couldn’t</em> tell you about them ladies. And proud I’d be to do it. Fifty years I was with Miss Whittaker. I come to her as under-groom in old Johnny Blackthorne’s time, and stayed on as head-groom after he died. A rare young lady she was in them days. Deary me. Straight as a switch, with a fine, high colour in her cheeks and shiny black hair⁠—just like a beautiful two-year-old filly she was. And very sperrited. Wonnerful sperrited. There was a many gentlemen as would have been glad to hitch up with her, but she was never broke to harness. Like dirt, she treated ’em. Wouldn’t look at ’em, except it might be the grooms and stable-hands in a matter of ’osses. And in the way of business, of course. Well, there is some creatures like that. I ’ad a terrier-bitch that way. Great ratter she was. But a business woman⁠—nothin’ else. I tried ’er with all the dogs I could lay ’and to, but it weren’t no good. Bloodshed there was an’ sich a row⁠—you never ’eard. The Lord makes a few on ’em that way to suit ’Is own purposes, I suppose. There ain’t no arguin’ with females.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter said “Ah!”</p>
			<p>The ale went down in silence.</p>
			<p>Mr. Piggin roused himself presently from contemplation to tell a story of Miss Whittaker in the hunting-field. Mr. Cobling capped this by another. Lord Peter said “Ah!” Parker then emerged and was introduced, and Mr. Cobling begged the privilege of standing a round of drinks. This ritual accomplished, Mr. Piggin begged the company would be his guests for a third round, and then excused himself on the plea of customers to attend to.</p>
			<p>He went in, and Lord Peter, by skilful and maddeningly slow degrees, began to work his way back to the history of the Dawson family. Parker⁠—educated at Barrow-in-Furness grammar school and with his wits further sharpened in the London police service⁠—endeavoured now and again to get matters along faster by a brisk question. The result, every time, was to make Mr. Cobling lose the thread of his remarks and start him off into a series of interminable side-tracks. Wimsey kicked his friend viciously on the ankle-bone to keep him quiet, and with endless patience worked the conversation back to the main road again.</p>
			<p>At the end of an hour or so, Mr. Cobling explained that his wife could tell them a great deal more about Miss Dawson than what he could, and invited them to visit his cottage. This invitation being accepted with alacrity, the party started off, Mr. Cobling explaining to Parker that he was eighty-seven come next Michaelmas, and hearty still, indeed, stronger than he appeared, bar the rheumatics that troubled him. “I’m not saying as I’m not bent,” said Mr. Cobling, “but that’s more the work of the ’osses. Regular lived with ’osses all my life⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t look so fretful, Charles,” murmured Wimsey in his ear, “it must be the tea at breakfast⁠—it frets the coats of the stomach.”</p>
			<p>Mrs. Cobling turned out to be a delightful old lady, exactly like a dried-up pippin and only two years younger than her husband. She was entranced at getting an opportunity to talk about her darling Miss Agatha. Parker, thinking it necessary to put forward some reason for the inquiry, started on an involved explanation, and was kicked again. To Mrs. Cobling, nothing could be more natural than that all the world should be interested in the Dawsons, and she prattled gaily on without prompting.</p>
			<p>She had been in the Dawson family service as a girl⁠—almost born in it as you might say. Hadn’t her mother been housekeeper to Mr. Henry Dawson, Miss Agatha’s papa, and to his father before him? She herself had gone to the big house as stillroom maid when she wasn’t but fifteen. That was when Miss Harriet was only three years old⁠—her as afterwards married Mr. James Whittaker. Yes, and she’d been there when the rest of the family was born. Mr. Stephen⁠—him as should have been the heir⁠—ah, dear! only the trouble came and that killed his poor father and there was nothing left. Yes, a sad business that was. Poor Mr. Henry speculated with something⁠—Mrs. Cobling wasn’t clear what, but it was all very wicked and happened in London where there were so many wicked people⁠—and the long and the short was, he lost it all, poor gentleman, and never held up his head again. Only fifty-four he was when he died; such a fine upright gentleman with a pleasant word for everybody. And his wife didn’t live long after him, poor lamb. She was a Frenchwoman and a sweet lady, but she was very lonely in England, having no family and her two sisters walled up alive in one of them dreadful Romish Convents.</p>
			<p>“And what did Mr. Stephen do when the money went?” asked Wimsey.</p>
			<p>“Him? Oh, he went into business⁠—a strange thing that did seem, though I have heard tell as old Barnabas Dawson, Mr. Henry’s grandfather that was, was nought but a grocer or something of that⁠—and they do say, don’t they, that from shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves is three generations? Still, it was very hard on Mr. Stephen, as had always been brought up to have everything of the best. And engaged to be married to a beautiful lady, too, and a very rich heiress. But it was all for the best, for when she heard Mr. Stephen was a poor man after all, she threw him over, and that showed she had no heart in her at all. Mr. Stephen never married till he was over forty, and then it was a lady with no family at all⁠—not lawful, that is, though she was a dear, sweet girl and made Mr. Stephen a most splendid wife⁠—she did indeed. And Mr. John, he was their only son. They thought the world of him. It was a terrible day when the news came that he was killed in the War. A cruel business that was, sir, wasn’t it?⁠—and nobody the better for it as I can see, but all these shocking hard taxes, and the price of everything gone up so, and so many out of work.”</p>
			<p>“So he was killed? That must have been a terrible grief to his parents.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, terrible. Oh, it was an awful thing altogether, sir, for poor Mr. Stephen, as had had so much trouble all his life, he went out of his poor mind and shot hisself. Out of his mind he must have been, sir, to do it⁠—and what was more dreadful still, he shot his dear lady as well. You may remember it, sir. There was pieces in the paper about it.”</p>
			<p>“I seem to have some vague recollection of it,” said Peter, quite untruthfully, but anxious not to seem to belittle the local tragedy. “And young John⁠—he wasn’t married, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. That was very sad, too. He was engaged to a young lady⁠—a nurse in one of the English hospitals, as we understood, and he was hoping to get back and be married to her on his next leave. Every thing did seem to go all wrong together them terrible years.”</p>
			<p>The old lady sighed, and wiped her eyes.</p>
			<p>“Mr. Stephen was the only son, then?”</p>
			<p>“Well, not exactly, sir. There was the darling twins. Such pretty children, but they only lived two days. They come four years after Miss Harriet⁠—her as married Mr. James Whittaker.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course. That was how the families became connected.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Miss Agatha and Miss Harriet and Miss Clara Whittaker was all at the same school together, and Mrs. Whittaker asked the two young ladies to go and spend their holidays with Miss Clara, and that was when Mr. James fell in love with Miss Harriet. She wasn’t as pretty as Miss Agatha, to my thinking, but she was livelier and quicker⁠—and then, of course, Miss Agatha was never one for flirting and foolishness. Often she used to say to me, ‘Betty,’ she said, ‘I mean to be an old maid and so does Miss Clara, and we’re going to live together and be ever so happy, without any stupid, tiresome gentlemen.’ And so it turned out, sir, as you know, for Miss Agatha, for all she was so quiet, was very determined. Once she’d said a thing, you couldn’t turn her from it⁠—not with reasons, nor with threats, nor with coaxings⁠—nothing! Many’s the time I’ve tried when she was a child⁠—for I used to give a little help in the nursery sometimes, sir. You might drive her into a temper or into the sulks, but you couldn’t make her change her little mind, even then.” There came to Wimsey’s mind the picture of the stricken, helpless old woman, holding to her own way in spite of her lawyer’s reasoning and her niece’s subterfuge. A remarkable old lady, certainly, in her way.</p>
			<p>“I suppose the Dawson family has practically died out, then,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir. There’s only Miss Mary now⁠—and she’s a Whittaker, of course. She is Miss Harriet’s granddaughter, Mr. Charles Whittaker’s only child. She was left all alone, too, when she went to live with Miss Dawson. Mr. Charles and his wife was killed in one of these dreadful motors⁠—dear, dear⁠—it seemed we was fated to have nothing but one tragedy after another. Just to think of Ben and me outliving them all.”</p>
			<p>“Cheer up, Mother,” said Ben, laying his hand on hers. “The Lord have been wonderful good to us.”</p>
			<p>“That He have. Three sons we have, sir, and two daughters, and fourteen grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Maybe you’d like to see their pictures, sir.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter said he should like to very much, and Parker made confirmatory noises. The life-histories of all the children and descendants were detailed at suitable length. Whenever a pause seemed discernible, Parker would mutter hopefully in Wimsey’s ear, “How about Cousin Hallelujah?” but before a question could be put, the interminable family chronicle was resumed.</p>
			<p>“And for God’s sake, Charles,” whispered Peter, savagely, when Mrs. Cobling had risen to hunt for the shawl which Grandson William had sent home from the Dardanelles, “don’t keep saying Hallelujah at me! I’m not a revival meeting.”</p>
			<p>The shawl being duly admired, the conversation turned upon foreign parts, natives and black people generally, following on which, Lord Peter added carelessly:</p>
			<p>“By the way, hasn’t the Dawson family got some sort of connections in those foreign countries, somewhere?” Well, yes, said Mrs. Cobling, in rather a shocked tone. There had been Mr. Paul, Mr. Henry’s brother. But he was not mentioned much. He had been a terrible shock to his family. In fact⁠—a gasp here, and a lowering of the voice⁠—he had <em>turned Papist</em> and become⁠—a monk! (Had he become a murderer, apparently, he could hardly have done worse.) Mr. Henry had always blamed himself very much in the matter.</p>
			<p>“How was it his fault?”</p>
			<p>“Well, or course, Mr. Henry’s wife⁠—my dear mistress, you see, sir⁠—she was French, as I told you, and of course, <em>she</em> was a Papist. Being brought up that way, she wouldn’t know any better, naturally, and she was very young when she was married. But Mr. Henry soon taught her to be a Christian, and she put away her idolatrous ideas and went to the parish church. But Mr. Paul, <em>he</em> fell in love with one of her sisters, and the sister had been vowed to religion, as they called it, and had shut herself up in a nunnery.” And then Mr. Paul had broken his heart and “gone over” to the Scarlet Woman and⁠—again the pause and the hush⁠—become a monk. A terrible to-do it made. And he’d lived to be a very old man, and for all Mrs. Cobling knew was living yet, still in the error of his ways.</p>
			<p>“If he’s alive,” murmured Parker, “he’s probably the real heir. He’d be Agatha Dawson’s uncle and her nearest relation.”</p>
			<p>Wimsey frowned and returned to the charge.</p>
			<p>“Well, it couldn’t have been Mr. Paul I had in mind,” he said, “because this sort of relation of Miss Agatha Dawson’s that I heard about was a real foreigner⁠—in fact, a very dark-complexioned man⁠—almost a black man, or so I was told.”</p>
			<p>“Black?” cried the old lady⁠—“oh, no, sir⁠—that couldn’t be. Unless⁠—dear Lord a’ mercy, it couldn’t be that, surely! Ben, do you think it could be that?⁠—Old Simon, you know?”</p>
			<p>Ben shook his head. “I never heard tell much about him.”</p>
			<p>“Nor nobody did,” replied Mrs. Cobling, energetically. “He was a long way back, but they had tales of him in the family. ‘Wicked Simon,’ they called him. He sailed away to the Indies, many years ago, and nobody knew what became of him. Wouldn’t it be a queer thing, like, if he was to have married a black wife out in them parts, and this was his⁠—oh, dear⁠—his grandson it ’ud have to be, if not his great-grandson, for he was Mr. Henry’s uncle, and that’s a long time ago.”</p>
			<p>This was disappointing. A grandson of “old Simon’s” would surely be too distant a relative to dispute Mary Whittaker’s title. However:</p>
			<p>“That’s very interesting,” said Wimsey. “Was it the East Indies or the West Indies he went to, I wonder?”</p>
			<p>Mrs. Cobling didn’t know, but she believed it was something to do with America.</p>
			<p>“It’s a pity as Mr. Probyn ain’t in England any longer. He could have told you more about the family than what I can. But he retired last year and went away to Italy or some such place.”</p>
			<p>“Who was he?”</p>
			<p>“He was Miss Whittaker’s solicitor,” said Ben, “and he managed all Miss Dawson’s business, too. A nice gentleman he was, but uncommon sharp⁠—ha, ha! Never gave nothing away. But that’s lawyers all the world over,” added he, shrewdly, “take all and give nothing.”</p>
			<p>“Did he live in Crofton?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, in Croftover Magna, twelve miles from here. Pointer &amp; Winkin have his business now, but they’re young men, and I don’t know much about them.”</p>
			<p>Having by this time heard all the Coolings had to tell, Wimsey and Parker gradually disentangled themselves and took their leave.</p>
			<p>“Well, Cousin Hallelujah’s a wash-out,” said Parker.</p>
			<p>“Possibly⁠—possibly not. There may be some connection. Still, I certainly think the disgraceful and papistical Mr. Paul is more promising. Obviously Mr. Probyn is the bird to get hold of. You realise who he is?”</p>
			<p>“He’s the mysterious solicitor, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“Of course he is. He knows why Miss Dawson ought to have made her will. And we’re going straight off to Croftover Magna to look up Messrs. Pointer &amp; Winkin, and see what they have to say about it.”</p>
			<p>Unhappily, Messrs. Pointer &amp; Winkin had nothing to say whatever. Miss Dawson had withdrawn her affairs from Mr. Probyn’s hands and had lodged all the papers with her new solicitor. Messrs. Pointer &amp; Winkin had never had any connection with the Dawson family. They had no objection, however, to furnishing Mr. Probyn’s address⁠—Villa Bianca, Fiesole. They regretted that they could be of no further assistance to Lord Peter Wimsey and Mr. Parker. Good morning.</p>
			<p>“Short and sour,” was his lordship’s comment. “Well, well⁠—we’ll have a spot of lunch and write a letter to Mr. Probyn and another to my good friend Bishop Lambert of the Orinoco Mission to get a line on Cousin Hallelujah. Smile, smile, smile. As Ingoldsby says: ‘The breezes are blowing a race, a race! The breezes are blowing⁠—we near the chase!’ Do ye ken John Peel? Likewise, know’st thou the land where blooms the citron-flower? Well, never mind if you don’t⁠—you can always look forward to going there for your honeymoon.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
