<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII: Hallelujah</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Hallelujah</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“Our ancestors are very good kind of folks, but they are the last people I should choose to have a visiting acquaintance with.”</p>
					<cite>Sheridan: <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">The Rivals</i></cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>That excellent prelate, Bishop Lambert of the Orinoco Mission, proved to be a practical and kind man. He did not personally know the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah Dawson, but thought he might belong to the Tabernacle Mission⁠—a Nonconformist body which was doing a very valuable work in those parts. He would himself communicate with the London Headquarters of this community and let Lord Peter know the result. Two hours later, Bishop Lambert’s secretary had duly rung up the Tabernacle Mission and received the very satisfactory information that the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah Dawson was in England, and, indeed, available at their Mission House in Stepney. He was an elderly minister, living in very reduced circumstances⁠—in fact, the Bishop rather gathered that the story was a sad one.⁠—Oh, not at all, pray, no thanks. The Bishop’s poor miserable slave of a secretary did all the work. Very glad to hear from Lord Peter, and was he being good? Ha, ha! and when was he coming to dine with the Bishop?</p>
			<p>Lord Peter promptly gathered up Parker and swooped down with him upon the Tabernacle Mission, before whose dim and grim frontage <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Merdle’s long black bonnet and sweeping copper exhaust made an immense impression. The small fry of the neighbourhood had clustered about her and were practising horn solos almost before Wimsey had rung the bell. On Parker’s threatening them with punishment and casually informing them that he was a police-officer, they burst into ecstasies of delight, and joining hands, formed a ring-o’-roses round him, under the guidance of a sprightly young woman of twelve years old or thereabouts. Parker made a few harassed darts at them, but the ring only broke up, shrieking with laughter, and re-formed, singing. The Mission door opened at the moment, displaying this undignified exhibition to the eyes of a lank young man in spectacles, who shook a long finger disapprovingly and said, “Now, you children,” without the slightest effect and apparently without the faintest expectation of producing any.</p>
			<p>Lord Peter explained his errand.</p>
			<p>“Oh, come in, please,” said the young man, who had one finger in a book of theology. “I’m afraid your friend⁠—er⁠—this is rather a noisy district.”</p>
			<p>Parker shook himself free from his tormentors, and advanced, breathing threatenings and slaughter, to which the enemy responded by a derisive blast of the horn.</p>
			<p>“They’ll run those batteries down,” said Wimsey.</p>
			<p>“You can’t do anything with the little devils,” growled Parker.</p>
			<p>“Why don’t you treat them as human beings?” retorted Wimsey. “Children are creatures of like passions with politicians and financiers. Here, Esmeralda!” he added, beckoning to the ringleader.</p>
			<p>The young woman put her tongue out and made a rude gesture, but observing the glint of coin in the outstretched hand, suddenly approached and stood challengingly before them.</p>
			<p>“Look here,” said Wimsey, “here’s half a crown⁠—thirty pennies, you know. Any use to you?”</p>
			<p>The child promptly proved her kinship with humanity. She became abashed in the presence of wealth, and was silent, rubbing one dusty shoe upon the calf of her stocking.</p>
			<p>“You appear,” pursued Lord Peter, “to be able to keep your young friends in order if you choose. I take you, in fact, for a woman of character. Very well, if you keep them from touching my car while I’m in the house, you get this half-crown, see? But if you let ’em blow the horn, I shall hear it. Every time the horn goes, you lose a penny, got that? If the horn blows six times, you only get two bob. If I hear it thirty times, you don’t get anything. And I shall look out from time to time, and if I see anybody mauling the car about or sitting in it, <em>then</em> you don’t get anything. Do I make myself clear?”</p>
			<p>“I takes care o’ yer car fer ’arf a crahn. An’ ef the ’orn goes, you docks a copper ’orf of it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s right.”</p>
			<p>“Right you are, mister. I’ll see none on ’em touches it.”</p>
			<p>“Good girl. Now, sir.”</p>
			<p>The spectacled young man led them into a gloomy little waiting-room, suggestive of a railway station and hung with Old Testament prints.</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dawson you’re here,” said he, and vanished, with the volume of theology still clutched in his hand.</p>
			<p>Presently a shuffling step was heard on the coconut matting, and Wimsey and Parker braced themselves to confront the villainous claimant.</p>
			<p>The door, however, opened to admit an elderly West Indian, of so humble and inoffensive an appearance that the hearts of the two detectives sank into their boots. Anything less murderous could scarcely be imagined, as he stood blinking nervously at them from behind a pair of steel-rimmed spectacles, the frames of which had at one time been broken and bound with twine.</p>
			<p>The <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah Dawson was undoubtedly a man of colour. He had the pleasant, slightly aquiline features and brown-olive skin of the Polynesian. His hair was scanty and greyish⁠—not woolly, but closely curled. His stooping shoulders were clad in a threadbare clerical coat. His black eyes, yellow about the whites and slightly protruding, rolled amiably at them, and his smile was open and frank.</p>
			<p>“You asked to see me?” he began, in perfect English, but with the soft native intonation. “I think I have not the pleasure⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“How do you do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dawson? Yes. We are⁠—er⁠—makin’ certain inquiries⁠—er⁠—in connection with the family of the Dawsons of Crofton in Warwickshire, and it has been suggested that you might be able to enlighten us, what? as to their West Indian connections⁠—if you would be so good.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, yes!” The old man drew himself up slightly. “I am myself⁠—in a way⁠—a descendant of the family. Won’t you sit down?”</p>
			<p>“Thank you. We thought you might be.”</p>
			<p>“You do not come from Miss Whittaker?”</p>
			<p>There was something eager, yet defensive in the tone. Wimsey, not quite knowing what was behind it, chose the discreeter part.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no. We are⁠—preparin’ a work on County Families, don’t you know. Tombstones and genealogies and that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!⁠—yes⁠—I hoped perhaps⁠—” The mild tones died away in a sigh. “But I shall be very happy to help you in any way.”</p>
			<p>“Well, the question now is, what became of Simon Dawson? We know that he left his family and sailed for the West Indies in⁠—ah!⁠—in seventeen⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Eighteen hundred and ten,” said the old man, with surprising quickness. “Yes. He got into trouble when he was a lad of sixteen. He took up with bad men older than himself, and became involved in a very terrible affair. It had to do with gaming, and a man was killed. Not in a duel⁠—in those days that would not have been considered disgraceful⁠—though violence is always displeasing to the Lord⁠—but the man was foully murdered and Simon Dawson and his friends fled from justice. Simon fell in with the press-gang and was carried off to sea. He served fifteen years and was then taken by a French privateer. Later on he escaped and⁠—to cut a long story short⁠—got away to Trinidad under another name. Some English people there were kind to him and gave him work on their sugar plantation. He did well there and eventually became owner of a small plantation of his own.”</p>
			<p>“What was the name he went by?”</p>
			<p>“Harkaway. I suppose he was afraid that they would get hold of him as a deserter from the Navy if he went by his own name. No doubt he should have reported his escape. Anyway, he liked plantation life and was quite satisfied to stay where he was. I don’t suppose he would have cared to go home, even to claim his inheritance. And then, there was always the matter of the murder, you know⁠—though I dare say they would not have brought that trouble up against him, seeing he was so young when it happened and it was not his hand that did the awful deed.”</p>
			<p>“His inheritance? Was he the eldest son, then?”</p>
			<p>“No. Barnabas was the eldest, but he was killed at Waterloo and left no family. Then there was a second son, Roger, but he died of smallpox as a child. Simon was the third son.”</p>
			<p>“Then it was the fourth son who took the estate?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Frederick. He was Henry Dawson’s father. They tried, of course, to find out what became of Simon, but in those days it was very difficult, you understand, to get information from foreign places, and Simon had quite disappeared. So they had to pass him over.”</p>
			<p>“And what happened to Simon’s children?” asked Parker. “Did he have any?”</p>
			<p>The clergyman nodded, and a deep, dusky flush showed under his dark skin.</p>
			<p>“I am his grandson,” he said, simply. “That is why I came over to England. When the Lord called me to feed His lambs among my own people, I was in quite good circumstances. I had the little sugar plantation which had come down to me through my father, and I married and was very happy. But we fell on bad times⁠—the sugar crop failed, and our little flock became smaller and poorer and could not give so much support to their minister. Besides, I was getting too old and frail to do my work⁠—and I have a sick wife, too, and God has blessed us with many daughters, who needed our care. I was in great straits. And then I came upon some old family papers belonging to my grandfather, Simon, and learned that his name was not Harkaway but Dawson, and I thought, maybe I had a family in England and that God would yet raise up a table in the wilderness. Accordingly, when the time came to send a representative home to our London Headquarters, I asked permission to resign my ministry out there and come over to England.”</p>
			<p>“Did you get into touch with anybody?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. I went to Crofton⁠—which was mentioned in my grandfather’s letters⁠—and saw a lawyer in the town there⁠—a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Probyn of Croftover. You know him?”</p>
			<p>“I’ve heard of him.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He was very kind, and very much interested to see me. He showed me the genealogy of the family, and how my grandfather should have been the heir to the property.”</p>
			<p>“But the property had been lost by that time, had it not?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. And, unfortunately⁠—when I showed him my grandmother’s marriage certificate, he⁠—he told me that it was no certificate at all. I fear that Simon Dawson was a sad sinner. He took my grandmother to live with him, as many of the planters did take women of colour, and he gave her a document which was supposed to be a certificate of marriage signed by the Governor of the country. But when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Probyn inquired into it, he found that it was all a sham, and no such governor had ever existed. It was distressing to my feelings as a Christian, of course⁠—but since there was no property, it didn’t make any actual difference to us.”</p>
			<p>“That was bad luck,” said Peter, sympathetically.</p>
			<p>“I called resignation to my aid,” said the old Indian, with a dignified little bow. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Probyn was also good enough to send me with a letter of introduction to Miss Agatha Dawson, the only surviving member of our family.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, she lived at Leahampton.”</p>
			<p>“She received me in the most charming way, and when I told her who I was⁠—acknowledging, of course, that I had not the slightest claim upon her⁠—she was good enough to make me an allowance of £100 a year, which she continued till her death.”</p>
			<p>“Was that the only time you saw her?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. I would not intrude upon her. It could not be agreeable to her to have a relative of my complexion continually at her house,” said the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah, with a kind of proud humility. “But she gave me lunch, and spoke very kindly.”</p>
			<p>“And⁠—forgive my askin’⁠—hope it isn’t impertinent⁠—but does Miss Whittaker keep up the allowance?”</p>
			<p>“Well, no⁠—I⁠—perhaps I should not expect it, but it would have made a great difference to our circumstances. And Miss Dawson rather led me to hope that it might be continued. She told me that she did not like the idea of making a will, but, she said, ‘It is not necessary at all, Cousin Hallelujah, Mary will have all my money when I am gone, and she can continue the allowance on my behalf.’ But perhaps Miss Whittaker did not get the money after all?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, she did. It is very odd. She may have forgotten about it.”</p>
			<p>“I took the liberty of writing her a few words of spiritual comfort when her aunt died. Perhaps that did not please her. Of course, I did not write again. Yet I am loath to believe that she has hardened her heart against the unfortunate. No doubt there is some explanation.”</p>
			<p>“No doubt,” said Lord Peter. “Well, I’m very grateful to you for your kindness. That has quite cleared up the little matter of Simon and his descendants. I’ll just make a note of the names and dates, if I may.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. I will bring you the paper which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Probyn kindly made out for me, showing the whole of the family. Excuse me.”</p>
			<p>He was not gone long, and soon reappeared with a genealogy, neatly typed out on a legal-looking sheet of blue paper.</p>
			<p>Wimsey began to note down the particulars concerning Simon Dawson and his son, Bosun, and his grandson, Hallelujah. Suddenly he put his finger on an entry further along.</p>
			<p>“Look here, Charles,” he said. “Here is our Father Paul⁠—the bad boy who turned <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">R.C.</abbr> and became a monk.”</p>
			<p>“So he is. But⁠—he’s dead, Peter⁠—died in 1922, three years before Agatha Dawson.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. We must wash him out. Well, these little setbacks will occur.”</p>
			<p>They finished their notes, bade farewell to the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Hallelujah, and emerged to find Esmeralda valiantly defending <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Merdle against all comers. Lord Peter handed over the half-crown and took delivery of the car.</p>
			<p>“The more I hear of Mary Whittaker,” he said, “the less I like her. She might at least have given poor old Cousin Hallelujah his hundred quid.”</p>
			<p>“She’s a rapacious female,” agreed Parker. “Well, anyway, Father Paul’s safely dead, and Cousin Hallelujah is illegitimately descended. So there’s an end of the long-lost claimant from overseas.”</p>
			<p>“Damn it all!” cried Wimsey, taking both hands from the steering-wheel and scratching his head, to Parker’s extreme alarm, “that strikes a familiar chord. Now where in thunder have I heard those words before?”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
