<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II: Miching Mallecho</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Miching Mallecho</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“By the pricking of my thumbs<br/>
			Something evil this way comes.”</p>
			<cite>Macbeth</cite>
			<p>The April night was clear and chilly, and a brisk wood fire burned in a welcoming manner on the hearth. The bookcases which lined the walls were filled with rich old calf bindings, mellow and glowing in the lamp-light. There was a grand piano, open, a huge chesterfield piled deep with cushions and two arm-chairs of the build that invites one to wallow. The port was brought in by an impressive man-servant and placed on a very beautiful little Chippendale table. Some big bowls of scarlet and yellow parrot tulips beckoned, banner-like, from dark corners.</p>
			<p>The doctor had just written his new acquaintance down as an aesthete with a literary turn, looking for the ingredients of a human drama, when the man-servant re-entered.</p>
			<p>“Inspector Sugg rang up, my lord, and left this message, and said would you be good enough to give him a call as soon as you came in.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, did he?⁠—well, just get him for me, would you? This is the Worplesham business, Charles. Sugg’s mucked it up as usual. The baker has an alibi⁠—naturally⁠—he would have. Oh, thanks⁠ ⁠… Hullo! that you, Inspector? What did I tell you?⁠—Oh, routine be hanged. Now, look here. You get hold of that gamekeeper fellow, and find out from him what he saw in the sand-pit⁠ ⁠… No, I know, but I fancy if you ask him impressively enough he will come across with it. No, of course not⁠—if you ask if he was there, he’ll say no. Say you know he was there and what did he see⁠—and, look here! if he hums and haws about it, say you’re sending a gang down to have the stream diverted⁠ ⁠… All right. Not at all. Let me know if anything comes of it.”</p>
			<p>He put the receiver down.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, Doctor. A little matter of business. Now go on with your story. The old lady was dead, eh? Died in her sleep, I suppose. Passed away in the most innocent manner possible. Everything all ship-shape and, Bristol-fashion. No struggle, no wounds, haemorrhages, or obvious symptoms, naturally, what?”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. She had taken some nourishment at 6 o’clock⁠—a little broth and some milk pudding. At eight, the nurse gave her a morphine injection and then went straight out to put some bowls of flowers on the little table on the landing for the night. The maid came to speak to her about some arrangements for the next day, and while they were talking, Miss⁠ ⁠… that is, the niece⁠—came up and went into her aunt’s room. She had only been there a moment or two when she cried out, ‘Nurse! Nurse!’ The nurse rushed in, and found the patient dead.</p>
			<p>“Of course, my first idea was that by some accident a double dose of morphine had been administered⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Surely that wouldn’t have acted so promptly.”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—but I thought that a deep coma might have been mistaken for death. However, the nurse assured me that this was not the case, and, as a matter of fact, the possibility was completely disproved, as we were able to count the ampullae of morphine and found them all satisfactorily accounted for. There were no signs of the patient having tried to move or strain herself, or of her having knocked against anything. The little night-table was pushed aside, but that had been done by the niece when she came in and was struck by her aunt’s alarmingly lifeless appearance.”</p>
			<p>“How about the broth and the milk-pudding?”</p>
			<p>“That occurred to me also⁠—not in any sinister way, but to wonder whether she’d been having too much⁠—distended stomach⁠—pressure on the heart, and that sort of thing. However, when I came to look into it, it seemed very unlikely. The quantity was so small, and on the face of it, two hours were sufficient for digestion⁠—if it had been that, death would have taken place earlier. I was completely puzzled, and so was the nurse. Indeed, she was very much upset.”</p>
			<p>“And the niece?”</p>
			<p>“The niece could say nothing but ‘I told you so, I told you so⁠—I knew she was worse than you thought.’ Well, to cut a long story short, I was so bothered with my pet patient going off like that, that next morning, after I had thought the matter over, I asked for a post-mortem.”</p>
			<p>“Any difficulty?”</p>
			<p>“Not the slightest. A little natural distaste, of course, but no sort of opposition. I explained that I felt sure there must be some obscure morbid condition which I had failed to diagnose and that I should feel more satisfied if I might make an investigation. The only thing which seemed to trouble the niece was the thought of an inquest. I said⁠—rather unwisely, I suppose, according to general rules⁠—that I didn’t think an inquest would be necessary.”</p>
			<p>“You mean you offered to perform the post-mortem yourself.”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—I made no doubt that I should find a sufficient cause of death to enable me to give a certificate. I had one bit of luck, and that was that the old lady had at some time or the other expressed in a general way an opinion in favour of cremation, and the niece wished this to be carried out. This meant getting a man with special qualifications to sign the certificate with me, so I persuaded this other doctor to come and help me to do the autopsy.”</p>
			<p>“And did you find anything?”</p>
			<p>“Not a thing. The other man, of course, said I was a fool to kick up a fuss. He thought that as the old lady was certainly dying in any case, it would be quite enough to put in, Cause of death, Cancer; immediate cause, Heart Failure, and leave it at that. But I was a damned conscientious ass, and said I wasn’t satisfied. There was absolutely nothing about the body to explain the death naturally, and I insisted on an analysis.”</p>
			<p>“Did you actually suspect⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“Well, no, not exactly. But⁠—well, I wasn’t satisfied. By the way, it was very clear at the autopsy that the morphine had nothing to do with it. Death had occurred so soon after the injection that the drug had only partially dispersed from the arm. Now I think it over, I suppose it must have been shock, somehow.”</p>
			<p>“Was the analysis privately made?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; but of course the funeral was held up and things got round. The coroner heard about it and started to make inquiries, and the nurse, who got it into her head that I was accusing her of neglect or something, behaved in a very unprofessional way and created a lot of talk and trouble.”</p>
			<p>“And nothing came of it?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing. There was no trace of poison or anything of that sort, and the analysis left us exactly where we were. Naturally, I began to think I had made a ghastly exhibition of myself. Rather against my own professional judgment, I signed the certificate⁠—heart failure following on shock, and my patient was finally got into her grave after a week of worry, without an inquest.”</p>
			<p>“Grave?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. That was another scandal. The crematorium authorities, who are pretty particular, heard about the fuss and refused to act in the matter, so the body is filed in the churchyard for reference if necessary. There was a huge attendance at the funeral and a great deal of sympathy for the niece. The next day I got a note from one of my most influential patients, saying that my professional services would no longer be required. The day after that, I was avoided in the street by the Mayor’s wife. Presently I found my practice dropping away from me, and discovered I was getting known as ‘the man who practically accused that charming Miss So-and-so of murder.’ Sometimes it was the niece I was supposed to be accusing. Sometimes it was ‘that nice Nurse⁠—not the flighty one who was dismissed, the other one, you know.’ Another version was, that I had tried to get the nurse into trouble because I resented the dismissal of my fiancée. Finally, I heard a rumour that the patient had discovered me ‘canoodling’⁠—that was the beastly word⁠—with my fiancée, instead of doing my job, and had done away with the old lady myself out of revenge⁠—though why, in that case, I should have refused a certificate, my scandal-mongers didn’t trouble to explain.</p>
			<p>“I stuck it out for a year, but my position became intolerable. The practice dwindled to practically nothing, so I sold it, took a holiday to get the taste out of my mouth⁠—and here I am, looking for another opening. So that’s that⁠—and the moral is, Don’t be officious about public duties.”</p>
			<p>The doctor gave an irritated laugh, and flung himself back in his chair.</p>
			<p>“I don’t care,” he added, combatantly, “the cats! Confusion to ’em!” and he drained his glass.</p>
			<p>“Hear, hear!” agreed his host. He sat for a few moments looking thoughtfully into the fire.</p>
			<p>“Do you know,” he said, suddenly, “I’m feeling rather interested by this case. I have a sensation of internal gloating which assures me that there is something to be investigated. That feeling has never failed me yet⁠—I trust it never will. It warned me the other day to look into my Income-tax assessment, and I discovered that I had been paying about £900 too much for the last three years. It urged me only last week to ask a bloke who was preparing to drive me over the Horseshoe Pass whether he had any petrol in the tank, and he discovered he had just about a pint⁠—enough to get us nicely half-way round. It’s a very lonely spot. Of course, I knew the man, so it wasn’t <em>all</em> intuition. Still, I always make it a rule to investigate anything I feel like investigating. I believe,” he added, in a reminiscent tone, “I was a terror in my nursery days. Anyhow, curious cases are rather a hobby of mine. In fact, I’m not just being the perfect listener. I have deceived you. I have an ulterior motive, said he, throwing off his side-whiskers and disclosing the well-known hollow jaws of Mr. Sherlock Holmes.”</p>
			<p>“I was beginning to have my suspicions,” said the doctor, after a short pause. “I think you must be Lord Peter Wimsey. I wondered why your face was so familiar, but of course it was in all the papers a few years ago when you disentangled the Riddlesdale Mystery.”</p>
			<p>“Quite right. It’s a silly kind of face, of course, but rather disarming, don’t you think? I don’t know that I’d have chosen it, but I do my best with it. I do hope it isn’t contracting a sleuth-like expression, or anything unpleasant. This is the real sleuth⁠—my friend Detective-Inspector Parker of Scotland Yard. He’s the one who really does the work. I make imbecile suggestions and he does the work of elaborately disproving them. Then, by a process of elimination, we find the right explanation, and the world says, ‘My god, what intuition that young man has!’ Well, look here⁠—if you don’t mind, I’d like to have a go at this. If you’ll entrust me with your name and address and the names of the parties concerned, I’d like very much to have a shot at looking into it.”</p>
			<p>The doctor considered a moment, then shook his head.</p>
			<p>“It’s very good of you, but I think I’d rather not. I’ve got into enough bothers already. Anyway, it isn’t professional to talk, and if I stirred up any more fuss, I should probably have to chuck this country altogether and end up as one of those drunken ship’s doctors in the South Seas or somewhere, who are always telling their life-history to people and delivering awful warnings. Better to let sleeping dogs lie. Thanks very much, all the same.”</p>
			<p>“As you like,” said Wimsey. “But I’ll think it over, and if any useful suggestion occurs to me, I’ll let you know.”</p>
			<p>“It’s very good of you,” replied the visitor, absently, taking his hat and stick from the man-servant, who had answered Wimsey’s ring. “Well, good night, and many thanks for hearing me so patiently. By the way, though,” he added, turning suddenly at the door, “how do you propose to let me know when you haven’t got my name and address?”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter laughed.</p>
			<p>“I’m Hawkshaw, the detective,” he answered, “and you shall hear from me anyhow before the end of the week.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
