<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI: Found Dead</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Found Dead</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Blood, though it sleep a time, yet never dies.”</p>
			<p>Chapman:<em>The Widow’s Tears</em></p>
			<p>“You know, Wimsey, I think you’ve found a mare’s nest,” objected <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker. “I don’t believe there’s the slightest reason for supposing that there was anything odd about the Dawson woman’s death. You’ve nothing to go on but a conceited young doctor’s opinion and a lot of silly gossip.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got an official mind, Charles,” replied his friend. “Your official passion for evidence is gradually sapping your brilliant intellect and smothering your instincts. You’re over-civilised, that’s your trouble. Compared with you, I am a child of nature. I dwell among the untrodden ways beside the springs of Dove, a maid whom there are (I am shocked to say) few to praise, likewise very few to love, which is perhaps just as well. I <em>know</em> there is something wrong about this case.”</p>
			<p>“How?”</p>
			<p>“How?⁠—well, just as I know there is something wrong about that case of reputed Lafite ’76 which that infernal fellow Pettigrew-Robinson had the nerve to try out on me the other night. It has a nasty flavour.”</p>
			<p>“Flavour be damned. There’s no indication of violence or poison. There’s no motive for doing away with the old girl. And there’s no possibility of proving anything against anybody.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter selected a Villar y Villar from his case, and lighted it with artistic care.</p>
			<p>“Look here/’ he said, “will you take a bet about it? I’ll lay you ten to one that Agatha Dawson was murdered, twenty to one that Mary Whittaker did it, and fifty to one that I bring it home to her within the year. Are you on?”</p>
			<p>Parker laughed. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he temporised.</p>
			<p>“There you are,” said Lord Peter, triumphantly, “you’re not comfortable about it yourself. If you were, you’d have said, ‘It’s taking your money, old chap,’ and closed like a shot, in the happy assurance of a certainty.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve seen enough to know that nothing is a certainty,” retorted the detective, “but I’ll take you⁠—in⁠—half-crowns,” he added, cautiously.</p>
			<p>“Had you said ponies,” replied Lord Peter, “I would have taken your alleged poverty into consideration and spared you, but seven-and-sixpence will neither make nor break you. Consequently, I shall proceed to make my statements good.”</p>
			<p>“And what step do you propose taking?” inquired Parker, sarcastically. “Shall you apply for an exhumation order and search for poison, regardless of the analyst’s report? Or kidnap Miss Whittaker and apply the third-degree in the Gallic manner?”</p>
			<p>“Not at all. I am more modern. I shall use up-to-date psychological methods. Like the people in the Psalms, I lay traps; I catch men. I shall let the alleged criminal convict herself.”</p>
			<p>“Go on! You are a one, aren’t you?” said Parker, jeeringly.</p>
			<p>“I am indeed. It is a well-established psychological fact that criminals cannot let well alone. They⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Revisit the place of the crime?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t interrupt, blast you. They take unnecessary steps to cover the traces which they haven’t left, and so invite, seriatim, Suspicion, Inquiry, Proof, Conviction and the Gallows. Eminent legal writers⁠—no, pax! don’t chuck that<abbr>S.</abbr> Augustine about, it’s valuable. Anyhow, not to cast the jewels of my eloquence into the pig-bucket, I propose to insert this advertisement in all the morning papers. Miss Whittaker must read <em>some</em> product of our brilliant journalistic age, I suppose. By this means, we shall kill two birds with one stone.”</p>
			<p>“Start two hares at once, you mean,” grumbled Parker. “Hand it over.”</p>
			<p>“<b>Bertha and Evelyn Gotobed</b>, formerly in the service of Miss Agatha Dawson, of ‘The Grove,’ Wellington Avenue, Leahampton, are requested to communicate with J. Murbles, solicitor, of Staple Inn, when they will hear of <b>something to their advantage</b>.”</p>
			<p>“Rather good, I think, don’t you?” said Wimsey. “Calculated to rouse suspicion in the most innocent mind. I bet you Mary Whittaker will fall for that.”</p>
			<p>“In what way?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. That’s what’s so interesting. I hope nothing unpleasant will happen to dear old Murbles. I should hate to lose him. He’s such a perfect type of the family solicitor. Still, a man in his profession must be prepared to take risks.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, bosh!” said Parker. “But I agree that it might be as well to get hold of the girls, if you really want to find out about the Dawson household. Servants always know everything.”</p>
			<p>“It isn’t only that. Don’t you remember that Nurse Philliter said the girls were sacked shortly before she left herself? Now, passing over the odd circumstances of the Nurse’s own dismissal⁠—the story about Miss Dawson’s refusing to take food from her hands, which wasn’t at all borne out by the old lady’s own attitude to her nurse⁠—isn’t it worth considerin’ that these girls should have been pushed off on some excuse just about three weeks after one of those hysterical attacks of Miss Dawson’s? Doesn’t it rather look as though everybody who was likely to remember anything about that particular episode had been got out of the way?”</p>
			<p>“Well, there was a good reason for getting rid of the girls.”</p>
			<p>“Crockery?⁠—well, nowadays it’s not so easy to get good servants. Mistresses put up with a deal more carelessness than they did in the dear dead days beyond recall. Then, about that attack. Why did Miss Whittaker choose just the very moment when the highly-intelligent Nurse Philliter had gone for her walk, to bother Miss Dawson about signin’ some tiresome old lease or other? If business was liable to upset the old girl, why not have a capable person at hand to calm her down?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but Miss Whittaker is a trained nurse. She was surely capable enough to see to her aunt herself.”</p>
			<p>“I’m perfectly sure she was a very capable woman indeed,” said Wimsey, with emphasis.</p>
			<p>“Oh, all right. You’re prejudiced. But stick the ad. in by all means. It can’t do any harm.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter paused, in the very act of ringing the bell. His jaw slackened, giving his long, narrow face a faintly foolish and hesitant look, reminiscent of the heroes of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> P. G. Wodehouse.</p>
			<p>“You don’t think⁠—” he began. “Oh! rats!” He pressed the button. “It <em>can’t</em> do any harm, as you say. Bunter, see that this advertisement appears in the personal columns of all this list of papers, every day until further notice.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The advertisement made its first appearance on the Tuesday morning. Nothing of any note happened during the week, except that Miss Climpson wrote in some distress to say that the youngest Miss Findlater had at length succeeded in persuading Miss Whittaker to take definite steps about the poultry farm. They had gone away together to look at a business which they had seen advertised in the <i>Poultry News</i>, and proposed to be away for some weeks. Miss Climpson feared that under the circumstances she would not be able to carry on any investigations of sufficient importance to justify her <em>far too generous</em> salary. She had, however, become friendly with Miss Findlater, who had promised to tell her <em>all about</em> their doings. Lord Peter replied in reassuring terms.</p>
			<p>On the Tuesday following, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker was just wrestling in prayer with his charlady, who had a tiresome habit of boiling his breakfast kippers till they resembled heavily pickled loofahs, when the telephone whirred aggressively.</p>
			<p>“Is that you, Charles?” asked Lord Peter’s voice. “I say, Murbles has had a letter about that girl, Bertha Gotobed. She disappeared from her lodgings last Thursday, and her landlady, getting anxious, and having seen the advertisement, is coming to tell us all she knows. Can you come round to Staple Inn at eleven?”</p>
			<p>“Dunno,” said Parker, a little irritably. “I’ve got a job to see to. Surely you can tackle it by yourself.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes!” The voice was peevish. “But I thought you’d like to have some of the fun. What an ungrateful devil you are. You aren’t taking the faintest interest in this case.”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—I don’t believe in it, you know. All right⁠—don’t use language like that⁠—you’ll frighten the girl at the Exchange. I’ll see what I can do. Eleven?⁠—right!-Oh, I say!”</p>
			<p>“Cluck!” said the telephone.</p>
			<p>“Rung off,” said Parker, bitterly. “Bertha Gotobed. H’m! I could have sworn⁠—”</p>
			<p>He reached across to the breakfast-table for the <i>Daily Telly</i> which was propped against the marmalade jar, and read with pursed lips a paragraph whose heavily leaded headlines had caught his eye, just before the interruption of the kipper episode.</p>
			<p><b>“Nippy” Found Dead in Epping Forest</b></p>
			<p>£5 Note in Hand-bag.</p>
			<p>He took up the receiver again and asked for Wimsey’s number. The manservant answered him.</p>
			<p>“His lordship is in his bath, sir. Shall I put you through?”</p>
			<p>“Please,” said Parker.</p>
			<p>The telephone clucked again. Presently Lord Peter’s voice came faintly, “Hullo!”</p>
			<p>“Did the landlady mention where Bertha Gotobed was employed?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—she was a waitress at the Corner House. Why this interest all of a sudden? You snub me in my bed, but you woo me in my bath. It sounds like a music-hall song of the less refined sort. Why, oh why?”</p>
			<p>“Haven’t you seen the papers?”</p>
			<p>“No. I leave these follies till breakfast-time. What’s up? Are we ordered to Shanghai? or have they taken sixpence off the income-tax?”</p>
			<p>“Shut up, you fool, it’s serious. You’re too late.”</p>
			<p>“What for?”</p>
			<p>“Bertha Gotobed was found dead in Epping Forest this morning.”</p>
			<p>“Good God! Dead? How? What of?”</p>
			<p>“No idea. Poison or something. Or heart failure. No violence. No robbery. No clue. I’m going down to the Yard about it now.”</p>
			<p>“God forgive me, Charles. D’you know, I had a sort of awful feeling when you said that ad. could do no harm. Dead. Poor girl! Charles, I feel like a murderer. Oh, damn! and I’m all wet. It does make one feel so helpless. Look here, you spin down to the Yard and tell ’em what you know and I’ll join you there in half a tick. Anyway, there’s no doubt about it now.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but, look here. It may be something quite different. Nothing to do with your ad.”</p>
			<p>“Pigs <em>may</em> fly. Use your common sense. Oh! and Charles, does it mention the sister?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. There was a letter from her on the body, by which they identified it. She got married last month and went to Canada.”</p>
			<p>“That’s saved her life. She’ll be in absolutely horrible danger, if she comes back. We must get hold of her and warn her. And find out what she knows. Good-bye. I <em>must</em> get some clothes on. Oh, hell!”</p>
			<p>Cluck! the line went dead again, and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker, abandoning the kippers without regret, ran feverishly out of the house and down Lamb’s Conduit Street to catch a diver tram to Westminster.</p>
			<p>The Chief of Scotland Yard, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, was a very old friend of Lord Peter’s. He received that agitated young man kindly and listened with attention to his slightly involved story of cancer, wills, mysterious solicitors and advertisements in the agony column.</p>
			<p>“It’s a curious coincidence,” he said, indulgently, “and I can understand your feeling upset about it. But you may set your mind at rest. I have the police-surgeon’s report, and he is quite convinced that the death was perfectly natural. No signs whatever of any assault. They will make an examination, of course, but I don’t think there is the slightest reason to suspect foul play.”</p>
			<p>“But what was she doing in Epping Forest?”</p>
			<p>Sir Andrew shrugged gently.</p>
			<p>“That must be inquired into, of course. Still⁠—young people <em>do</em> wander about, you know. There’s a fiancé somewhere. Something to do with the railway, I believe. Collins has gone down to interview him. Or she may have been with some other friend.”</p>
			<p>“But if the death was natural, no one would leave a sick or dying girl like that?”</p>
			<p>“<em>You</em> wouldn’t. But say there had been some running about⁠—some horse-play⁠—and the girl fell dead, as these heart cases sometimes do. The companion may well have taken fright and cleared out. It’s not unheard of.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter looked unconvinced.</p>
			<p>“How long has she been dead?”</p>
			<p>“About five or six days, our man thinks. It was quite by accident that she was found then at all; it’s quite an unfrequented part of the Forest. A party of young people were exploring with a couple of terriers, and one of the dogs nosed out the body.”</p>
			<p>“Was it out in the open?”</p>
			<p>“Not exactly. It lay among some bushes⁠—the sort of place where a frolicsome young couple might go to play hide-and-seek.”</p>
			<p>“Or where a murderer might go to play hide and let the police seek,” said Wimsey.</p>
			<p>“Well, well. Have it your own way,” said Sir Andrew, smiling. “If it was murder, it must have been a poisoning job, for, as I say, there was not the slightest sign of a wound or a struggle. I’ll let you have the report of the autopsy. In the meanwhile, if you’d like to run down there with Inspector Parker, you can of course have any facilities you want. And if you discover anything, let me know.”</p>
			<p>Wimsey thanked him, and collecting Parker from an adjacent office, rushed him briskly down the corridor.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like it,” he said, “that is, of course, it’s very gratifying to know that our first steps in psychology have led to action, so to speak, but I wish to God it hadn’t been quite such decisive action. We’d better trot down to Epping straight away, and see the landlady later. I’ve got a new car, by the way, which you’ll like.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker took one look at the slim black monster, with its long rakish body and polished-copper twin exhausts, and decided there and then that the only hope of getting down to Epping without interference was to look as official as possible and wave his police authority under the eyes of every man in blue along the route. He shoe-horned himself into his seat without protest, and was more unnerved than relieved to find himself shoot suddenly ahead of the traffic⁠—not with the bellowing roar of the ordinary racing engine, but in a smooth, uncanny silence.</p>
			<p>“The new Daimler Twin-Six,” said Lord Peter, skimming dexterously round a lorry without appearing to look at it. “With a racing body. Specially built⁠ ⁠… useful⁠ ⁠… gadgets⁠ ⁠… no row⁠—hate row⁠ ⁠… like Edmund Sparkler⁠ ⁠… very anxious there should be no row⁠ ⁠… Little Dorrit⁠ ⁠… remember⁠ ⁠… call her <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Merdle⁠ ⁠… for that reason⁠ ⁠… presently we’ll see what she can do.”</p>
			<p>The promise was fulfilled before their arrival at the spot where the body had been found. Their arrival made a considerable sensation among the little crowd which business or curiosity had drawn to the spot. Lord Peter was instantly pounced upon by four reporters and a synod of Press photographers, whom his presence encouraged in the hope that the mystery might turn out to be a three-column splash after all. Parker, to his annoyance, was photographed in the undignified act of extricating himself from “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Merdle.” Superintendent Walmisley came politely to his assistance, rebuked the onlookers, and led him to the scene of action.</p>
			<p>The body had been already removed to the mortuary, but a depression in the moist ground showed clearly enough where it had lain. Lord Peter groaned faintly as he saw it. “Damn this nasty warm spring weather,” he said, with feeling. “April showers⁠—sun and water⁠—couldn’t be worse. Body much altered, Superintendent?”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes, rather, my lord, especially in the exposed parts. But there’s no doubt about the identity.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t suppose there was. How was it lying?”</p>
			<p>“On the back, quite quiet and natural-like. No disarrangement of clothing, or anything. She must just have sat down when she felt herself bad and fallen back.”</p>
			<p>“M’m. The rain has spoilt any footprints or signs on the ground. And it’s grassy. Beastly stuff, grass, eh, Charles?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. These twigs don’t seem to have been broken at all, Superintendent.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no,” said the officer, “no signs of a struggle, as I pointed out in my report.”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—but if she’d sat down here and fallen back as you suggest, don’t you think her weight would have snapped some of these young shoots?”</p>
			<p>The Superintendent glanced sharply at the Scotland Yard man.</p>
			<p>“You don’t suppose she was brought and put here, do you, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose anything,” retorted Parker, “I merely drew attention to a point which I think you should consider. What are these wheel-marks?”</p>
			<p>“That’s our car, sir. We backed it up here and took her up that way.”</p>
			<p>“And all this trampling is your men too, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Partly that, sir, and partly the party as found her.”</p>
			<p>“You noticed no other person’s tracks, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. But it’s rained considerably this last week. Besides, the rabbits have been all over the place, as you can see, and other creatures too, I fancy. Weasels, or something of that sort.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! Well, I think you’d better take a look round. There might be traces of some kind a bit further away. Make a circle, and report anything you see. And you oughtn’t to have let all that bunch of people get so near. Put a cordon round and tell ’em to move on. Have you seen all you want, Peter?”</p>
			<p>Wimsey had been poking his stick aimlessly into the bole of an oak-tree at a few yards’ distance. Now he stooped and lifted out a package which had been stuffed into a cleft. The two policemen hurried forward with eager interest, which evaporated somewhat at sight of the find⁠—a ham sandwich and an empty Bass bottle, roughly wrapped up in a greasy newspaper.</p>
			<p>“Picnickers,” said Walmisley, with a snort. “Nothing to do with the body, I daresay.”</p>
			<p>“I think you’re mistaken,” said Wimsey, placidly. “When did the girl disappear, exactly?”</p>
			<p>“Well, she went off duty at the Corner House at five a week ago to-morrow, that’s Wednesday, 27th,” said Parker.</p>
			<p>“And this is the <em>Evening Views</em> of Wednesday, 27th,” said Wimsey. “Late Final edition. Now that edition isn’t on the streets till about 6 o’clock. So unless somebody brought it down and had supper here, it was probably brought by the girl herself or her companion. It’s hardly likely anyone would come and picnic here afterwards, not with the body there. Not that bodies need necessarily interfere with one’s enjoyment of one’s food. <em>À la guerre comme à la guerre</em>. But for the moment there isn’t a war on.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true, sir. But you’re assuming the death took place on the Wednesday or Thursday. She may have been somewhere else⁠—living with someone in town or anywhere.”</p>
			<p>“Crushed again,” said Wimsey. “Still, it’s a curious coincidence.”</p>
			<p>“It is, my lord, and I’m very glad you found the things. Will you take charge of ’em, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker, or shall I?”</p>
			<p>“Better take them along and put them with the other things,” said Parker, extending his hand to take them from Wimsey, whom they seemed to interest quite disproportionately. “I fancy his lordship’s right and that the parcel came here along with the girl. And that certainly looks as if she didn’t come alone. Possibly that young man of hers was with her. Looks like the old, old story. Take care of that bottle, old man, it may have finger-prints on it.”</p>
			<p>“You can have the bottle,” said Wimsey. “May we ne’er lack a friend or a bottle to give him, as Dick Swiveller says. But I earnestly beg that before you caution your respectable young railway clerk that anything he says may be taken down and used against him, you will cast your eye, and your nose, upon this ham sandwich.”</p>
			<p>“What’s wrong with it?” inquired Parker.</p>
			<p>“Nothing. It appears to be in astonishingly good preservation, thanks to this admirable oak-tree. The stalwart oak⁠—for so many centuries Britain’s bulwark against the invader! Heart of oak are our ships⁠—not hearts, by the way, as it is usually misquoted. But I am puzzled by the incongruity between the sandwich and the rest of the outfit.”</p>
			<p>“It’s an ordinary ham sandwich, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, gods of the wine-flask and the board, how long? how long?⁠—it is a ham sandwich, Goth, but not an ordinary one. Never did it see Lyons’ kitchen, or the counter of the multiple store or the delicatessen shop in the back street. The pig that was sacrificed to make this dainty titbit fattened in no dull style, never knew the daily ration of pig-wash or the not unmixed rapture of the domestic garbage-pail. Observe the hard texture, the deep brownish tint of the lean; the rich fat, yellow as a Chinaman’s cheek; the dark spot where the black treacle cure has soaked in, to make a dish fit to lure Zeus from Olympus. And tell me, man of no discrimination and worthy to be fed on boiled cod all the year round, tell me how it comes that your little waitress and her railway clerk come down to Epping Forest to regale themselves on sandwiches made from coal-black, treacle-cured Bradenham ham, which long ago ran as a young wild boar about the woodlands, till death translated it to an incorruptible and more glorious body? I may add that it costs about 3<em>s</em>. a pound uncooked⁠—an argument which you will allow to be weighty.”</p>
			<p>“That’s odd, certainly,” said Parker. “I imagine that only rich people⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Only rich people or people who understand eating as a fine art,” said Wimsey. “The two classes are by no means identical, though they occasionally overlap.”</p>
			<p>“It may be very important,” said Parker, wrapping the exhibits up carefully. “We’d better go along now and see the body.”</p>
			<p>The examination was not a very pleasant matter, for the weather had been damp and warm and there had certainly been weasels. In fact, after a brief glance, Wimsey left the two policemen to carry on alone, and devoted his attention to the dead girl’s handbag. He glanced through the letter from Evelyn Gotobed⁠—(now Evelyn Cropper)⁠—and noted down the Canadian address. He turned the cutting of his own advertisement out of an inner compartment, and remained for some time in consideration of the £5 note which lay, folded up, side by side with a 10<em>s</em>. Treasury note, 7<em>s</em> 8<em>d</em> in silver and copper, a latch-key and a powder compacte.</p>
			<p>“You’re having this note traced, Walmisley, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, my lord, certainly.”</p>
			<p>“And the latch-key, I imagine, belongs to the girl’s lodgings.”</p>
			<p>“No doubt it does. We have asked her landlady to come and identify the body. Not that there’s any doubt about it, but just as a matter of routine. She may give us some help. Ah!”⁠—the Superintendent peered out of the mortuary door⁠—“I think this must be the lady.”</p>
			<p>The stout and motherly woman who emerged from a taxi in charge of a youthful policeman, identified the body without difficulty, and amid many sobs, as that of Bertha Gotobed. “Such a nice young lady,” she mourned. “What a terrible thing, oh, dear! who would go to do a thing like that? I’ve been in such a state of worriment ever since she didn’t come home last Wednesday. I’m sure many’s the time I’ve said to myself I wished I’d had my tongue cut out before I ever showed her that wicked advertisement. Ah, I see you’ve got it there, sir. A dreadful thing it is that people should be luring young girls away with stories about something to their advantage. A sinful old devil⁠—calling himself a lawyer, too! When she didn’t come back and didn’t come back I wrote to the wretch, telling him I was on his track and was coming round to have the law on him as sure as my name’s Dorcas Gulliver. He wouldn’t have got round me⁠—not that I’d be the bird he was looking for, being sixty-one come Mid-Summer Day⁠—and so I told him.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter’s gravity was somewhat upset by this diatribe against the highly respectable <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murbles of Staple Inn, whose own version of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver’s communication had been decently expurgated. “How shocked the old boy must have been,” he murmured to Parker. “I’m for it next time I see him.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver’s voice moaned on and on.</p>
			<p>“Such respectable girls, both of them, and Miss Evelyn married to that nice young man from Canada. Deary me, it will be a terrible upset for her. And there’s poor John Ironsides, was to have married Miss Bertha, the poor lamb, this very Whitsuntide as ever is. A very steady, respectable man⁠—a clurk on the Southern, which he always used to say, joking like, ‘Slow but safe, like the Southern⁠—that’s me, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> G.’ T’ch, t’ch⁠—who’d a believed it? And it’s not as if she was one of the flighty sort. I give her a latch-key gladly, for she’d sometimes be on late duty, but never any staying out after her time. That’s why it worried me so, her not coming back. There’s many nowadays as would wash one’s hands and glad to be rid of them, knowing what they might be up to. No. When the time passed and she didn’t come back, I said, Mark my words, I said, she’s bin kidnapped, I said, by that Murbles.”</p>
			<p>“Had she been long with you, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver?” asked Parker.</p>
			<p>“Not above a fifteen month or so, she hadn’t, but bless you, I don’t have to know a young lady fifteen days to know if she’s a good girl or not. You gets to know by the look of ’em almost, when you’ve ’ad my experience.”</p>
			<p>“Did she and her sister come to you together?”</p>
			<p>“They did. They come to me when they was lookin’ for work in London. And they could a’ fallen into a deal worse hands I can tell you, two young things from the country, and them that fresh and pretty looking.”</p>
			<p>“They were uncommonly lucky, I’m sure, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver,” said Lord Peter, “and they must have found it a great comfort to be able to confide in you and get your good advice.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I think they did,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver, “not that young people nowadays seems to want much guidance from them as is older. Train up a child and away she go, as the Good Book says. But Miss Evelyn, that’s now <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper⁠—she’d had this London idea put into her head, and up they comes with the idea of bein’ made ladies of, havin’ only been in service before, though what’s the difference between serving in one of them tea-shops at the beck of all the nasty tagrag and bobtail and serving in a lady’s home, I <em>don’t</em> see, except that you works harder and don’t get your meals so comfortable. Still, Miss Evelyn, she was always the go-ahead one of the two, and she did very well for herself, I will say, meetin’ <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Cropper as used to take his breakfast regular at the Corner House every morning and took a liking to the girl in the most honourable way.”</p>
			<p>“That was very fortunate. Have you any idea what gave them the notion of coming to town?”</p>
			<p>“Well, now, sir, it’s funny you should ask that, because it was a thing I never could understand. The lady as they used to be in service with, down in the country, she put it into Miss Evelyn’s head. Now, sir, wouldn’t you think that with good service that ’ard to come by, she’d have done all she could to keep them with her? But no! There was a bit of trouble one day, it seems, over Bertha⁠—this poor girl here, poor lamb⁠—it do break one’s ’eart to see her like that, don’t it, sir?⁠—over Bertha ’avin’ broke an old teapot⁠—a very valuable one by all accounts, and the lady told ’er she couldn’t put up with ’avin’ her things broke no more. So she says: ‘You’ll ’ave to go,’ she says, ‘but,’ she says, ‘I’ll give you a very good character and you’ll soon get a good place. And I expect Evelyn’ll want to go with you,’ she says, ‘so I’ll have to find someone else to do for me,’ she says. ‘But,’ she says, ‘why not go to London? You’ll do better there and have a much more interesting life than what you would at home,’ she says. And the end of it was, she filled ’em up so with stories of how fine a place London was and how grand situations was to be had for the asking, that they was mad to go, and she give them a present of money and behaved very handsome, take it all round.”</p>
			<p>“H’m,” said Wimsey, “she seems to have been very particular about her teapot. Was Bertha a great crockery-breaker?”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, she never broke nothing of mine. But this Miss Whittaker⁠—that was the name⁠—she was one of these opiniated ladies, as will ’ave their own way in everythink. A fine temper she ’ad, or so poor Bertha said, though Miss Evelyn⁠—her as is now <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper⁠—<em>she</em> always ’ad an idea as there was somethink at the back of it. Miss Evelyn was always the sharp one, as you might say. But there, sir, we all ’as our peculiarities, don’t we? It’s my own belief as the lady had somebody of her own choice as she wanted to put in the place of Bertha⁠—that’s this one⁠—and Evelyn⁠—as is now <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper, you understand me⁠—and she jest trampled up an excuse, as they say, to get rid of ’em.”</p>
			<p>“Very possibly,” said Wimsey. “I suppose, Inspector, Evelyn Gotobed⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Now <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper,” put in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Gulliver with a sob.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Cropper, I should say⁠—has been communicated with?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, my lord. We cabled her at once.”</p>
			<p>“Good. I wish you’d let me know when you hear from her.”</p>
			<p>“We shall be in touch with Inspector Parker, my lord, of course.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. Well, Charles, I’m going to leave you to it. I’ve got a telegram to send. Or will you come with me?”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, no,” said Parker. “To be frank, I don’t like your methods of driving. Being in the Force, I prefer to keep on the windy side of the law.”</p>
			<p>“Windy is the word for you,” said Peter, “I’ll see you in Town, then.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
