<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-GB" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: A Bit Mental</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bit Mental</h3>
			</hgroup>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
			<p>“A babbled of green fields.”</p>
			<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">King Henry <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span></i></cite>
</blockquote>
			<p>Letter from Miss Alexandra Katherine Climpson to Lord Peter Wimsey.</p>
			<p>“℅ <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hamilton Budge,</p>
			<p>“Fairview, Nelson Avenue,</p>
			<p>“Leahampton, Hants.</p>
			<p>“April 29th, 1927.</p>
			<p>“My dear Lord Peter,</p>
			<p>“You will be happy to hear, after my <em>two previous</em> bad shots (!), that I have found the <em>right</em> place at last. The Agatha Dawson certificate is the <em>correct</em> one, and the dreadful <em>scandal</em> about <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr is still very much alive, I am sorry to say for the sake of <em>human nature</em>. I have been fortunate enough to secure rooms in the <em>very next street</em> to Wellington Avenue, where Miss Dawson used to live. My landlady seems a very nice woman, though a <em>terrible gossip</em>!⁠—which is <em>all to the good</em>!! Her charge for a very pleasant bedroom and sitting-room with <em>full board is</em> 3½ guineas weekly. I trust you will not think this <em>too extravagant</em>, as the situation is <em>just</em> what you wished me to look for. I enclose a careful statement of my expenses up-to-date. You will <em>excuse</em> the mention of <em>underwear</em>, which is, I fear, a <em>somewhat large</em> item! but wool is so expensive nowadays, and it is necessary that every detail of my equipment should be suitable to my (supposed!) position in life. I have been careful to <em>wash</em> the garments through, so that they do not look <em>too new</em>, as this might have a <em>suspicious</em> appearance!!</p>
			<p>“But you will be anxious for me to (if I may use a vulgar expression) ‘cut the cackle, and come to the horses’ (!!). On the day after my arrival, I informed <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge that I was a great sufferer from <em>rheumatism</em> (which is quite true, as I have a sad legacy of that kind left me by, alas! my <em>port-drinking</em> ancestors!)⁠—and inquired what <em>doctors</em> there were in the neighbourhood. This at once brought forth a <em>long catalogue</em>, together with a <em>grand panegyric</em> of the sandy soil and healthy situation of the town. I said I should prefer an <em>elderly</em> doctor, as <em>the young men</em>, in my opinion, were <em>not to be depended on</em>. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge heartily agreed with me, and a little discreet questioning brought out the <em>whole story</em> of Miss Dawson’s illness and the ‘carryings-on’ (as she termed them) of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr and <em>the nurse</em>! ‘I never did trust that first nurse,’ said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge, ‘for all she had her training at Guy’s and ought to have been trustworthy. A sly, redheaded <em>baggage</em>, and it’s my belief that all <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr’s fussing over Miss Dawson and his visits all day and every day were just to get lovemaking with Nurse Philliter. No wonder poor Miss Whittaker couldn’t stand it any longer and gave the girl the sack⁠—none too soon, in my opinion. Not quite so attentive after that, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr wasn’t⁠—why, up to the last minute, he was pretending the old lady was quite all right, when Miss Whittaker had only said the day before that she felt sure she was going to be taken from us.”</p>
			<p>“I asked if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge knew Miss Whittaker personally. Miss Whittaker is <em>the niece</em>, you know.</p>
			<p>“Not personally, she said, though she had met her in a social way at the Vicarage working-parties. But she knew all about it, because her maid was own sister to the maid at Miss Dawson’s. Now is not that a <em>fortunate</em> coincidence, for you know how these girls <em>talk</em>!</p>
			<p>“I also made careful inquiries about the <em>Vicar</em>, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tredgold, and was much gratified to find that he teaches <em>sound Catholic</em> doctrine, so that I shall be able to attend the Church (S. Onesimus) without doing <em>violence</em> to my religious beliefs⁠—a thing I could <em>not</em> undertake to do, <em>even in your interests</em>. I am sure you will <em>understand</em> this. As it happens, <em>all is well</em>, and I have written to my <em>very good friend</em>, the Vicar of <abbr>St.</abbr> Edfrith’s, Holborn, to ask for an <em>introduction</em> to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tredgold. By this means, I feel sure of meeting <em>Miss Whittaker</em> before long, as I hear she is quite a ‘pillar of the Church’! I do hope it is not <em>wrong</em> to make use of the Church of God to a <em>worldly</em> end; but after all, you are only seeking to establish <em>Truth</em> and <em>Justice</em>!⁠—and in so good a cause, we may perhaps permit ourselves to be a little bit <b>Jesuitical</b>!!!</p>
			<p>“This is all I have been able to do <em>as yet</em>, but I shall not be <em>idle</em>, and will write to you again as soon as I have <em>anything to report</em>. By the way, the <em>pillar-box</em> is <em>most conveniently placed</em> just at the corner of Wellington Avenue, so that I can easily <em>run out</em> and post my letters to you <em>myself</em> (away from <em>prying</em> eyes!!)⁠—and just take a little peep at Miss <em>Dawson’s</em>⁠—now Miss <em>Whittaker’s</em>⁠—house, ‘The Grove,’ at the same time.</p>
			<p>“Believe me,</p>
			<p>“Sincerely yours,</p>
			<p>“Alexandra Katherine Climpson.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The little redheaded nurse gave her visitor a quick, slightly hostile look-over.</p>
			<p>“It’s quite all right,” he said apologetically, “I haven’t come to sell you soap or gramophones, or to borrow money or enrol you in the Ancient Froth-blowers or anything charitable. I really am Lord Peter Wimsey⁠—I mean, that really is my title, don’t you know, not a Christian name like Sanger’s Circus or Earl Derr Biggers. I’ve come to ask you some questions, and I’ve no real excuse, I’m afraid, for butting in on you⁠—do you ever read the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">News of the World</i>?”</p>
			<p>Nurse Philliter decided that she was to be asked to go to a mental case, and that the patient had come to fetch her in person.</p>
			<p>“Sometimes,” she said, guardedly.</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—well, you may have noticed my name croppin’ up in a few murders and things lately. I sleuth, you know. For a hobby. Harmless outlet for natural inquisitiveness, don’t you see, which might otherwise strike inward and produce introspection an’ suicide. Very natural, healthy pursuit⁠—not too strenuous, not too sedentary; trains and invigorates the mind.”</p>
			<p>“I know who you are now,” said Nurse Philliter, slowly. “You⁠—you gave evidence against Sir Julian Freke. In fact, you traced the murder to him, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I did⁠—it was rather unpleasant,” said Lord Peter, simply, “and I’ve got another little job of the same kind in hand now, and I want your help.”</p>
			<p>“Won’t you sit down?” said Nurse Philliter, setting the example. “How am I concerned in the matter?”</p>
			<p>“You know <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Edward Carr, I think⁠—late of Leahampton⁠—conscientious but a little lackin’ in worldly wisdom⁠—not serpentine at all, as the Bible advises, but far otherwise.”</p>
			<p>“What!” she cried, “do <em>you</em> believe it was murder, then?”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter looked at her for a few seconds. Her face was eager, her eyes gleaming curiously under her thick, level brows. She had expressive hands, rather large and with strong, flat joints. He noticed how they gripped the arms of her chair.</p>
			<p>“Haven’t the faintest,” he replied, nonchalantly, “but I wanted your opinion.”</p>
			<p>“Mine?”⁠—she checked herself. “You know, I am not supposed to give opinions about my cases.”</p>
			<p>“You have given it me already,” said his lordship, grinning. “Though possibly I ought to allow for a little prejudice in favour of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr’s diagnosis.”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes⁠—but it’s not merely personal. I mean, my being engaged to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr wouldn’t affect my judgment of a cancer case. I have worked with him on a great many of them, and I know that his opinion is really trustworthy⁠—just as I know that, as a motorist, he’s exactly the opposite.”</p>
			<p>“Right. I take it that if he says the death was inexplicable, it really was so. That’s one point gained. Now about the old lady herself. I gather she was a little queer towards the end⁠—a bit mental, I think you people call it?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that I’d say that either. Of course, when she was under morphia, she would be unconscious, or only semiconscious, for hours together. But up to the time when I left, I should say she was quite⁠—well, quite all there. She was obstinate, you know, and what they call a character, at the best of times.”</p>
			<p>“But <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr told me she got odd fancies⁠—about people poisoning her?”</p>
			<p>The red-haired nurse rubbed her fingers slowly along the arm of the chair, and hesitated.</p>
			<p>“If it will make you feel any less unprofessional,” said Lord Peter, guessing what was in her mind, “I may say that my friend Detective-Inspector Parker is looking into this matter with me, which gives me a sort of right to ask questions.”</p>
			<p>“In that case⁠—yes⁠—in that case I think I can speak freely. I never understood about that poisoning idea. I never saw anything of it⁠—no aversion, I mean, or fear of me. As a rule, a patient will show it, if she’s got any queer ideas about the nurse. Poor Miss Dawson was always most kind and affectionate. She kissed me when I went away and gave me a little present, and said she was sorry to lose me.”</p>
			<p>“She didn’t show any sort of nervousness about taking food from you?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I wasn’t allowed to give her any food that last week. Miss Whittaker said her aunt had taken this funny notion, and gave her all her meals herself.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! that’s very interestin’ Was it Miss Whittaker, then, who first mentioned this little eccentricity to you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. And she begged me not to say anything about it to Miss Dawson, for fear of agitating her.”</p>
			<p>“And did you?”</p>
			<p>“I did not. I wouldn’t mention it in any case to a patient. It does no good.”</p>
			<p>“Did Miss Dawson ever speak about it to anyone else? <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr, for instance?”</p>
			<p>“No. According to Miss Whittaker, her aunt was frightened of the doctor too, because she imagined he was in league with me. Of course, that story rather lent colour to the unkind things that were said afterwards. I suppose it’s just possible that she saw us glancing at one another or speaking aside, and got the idea that we were plotting something.”</p>
			<p>“How about the maids?”</p>
			<p>“There were new maids about that time. She probably wouldn’t talk about it to them, and anyhow, I wouldn’t be discussing my patient with her servants.”</p>
			<p>“Of course not. Why did the other maids leave? How many were there? Did they all go at once?”</p>
			<p>“Two of them went. They were sisters. One was a terrible crockery-smasher, and Miss Whittaker gave her notice, so the other left with her.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, well! one can have too much of seeing the Crown Derby rollin’ round the floor. Quite. Then it had nothing to do with⁠—it wasn’t on account of any little⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It wasn’t because they couldn’t get along with the nurse, if you mean that,” said Nurse Philliter, with a smile. “They were very obliging girls, but not very bright.”</p>
			<p>“Quite. Well, now, is there any little odd, out-of-the-way incident you can think of that might throw light on the thing. There was a visit from a lawyer, I believe, that agitated your patient quite a lot. Was that in your time?”</p>
			<p>“No. I only heard about it from <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr. And he never heard the name of the lawyer, what he came about, or anything.”</p>
			<p>“A pity,” said his lordship. “I have been hoping great things of the lawyer. There’s such a sinister charm, don’t you think, about lawyers who appear unexpectedly with little bags, and alarm people with mysterious conferences, and then go away leaving urgent messages that if anything happens they are to be sent for. If it hadn’t been for the lawyer, I probably shouldn’t have treated <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr’s medical problem with the respect it ‘deserves. He never came again, or wrote, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. Wait a minute. I do remember one thing. I remember Miss Dawson having another hysterical attack of the same sort, and saying just what she said then⁠—‘that they were trying to kill her before her time.’ ”</p>
			<p>“When was that?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, a couple of weeks before I left. Miss Whittaker had been up to her with the post, I think, and there were some papers of some kind to sign, and it seems to have upset her. I came in from my walk and found her in a dreadful state. The maids could have told you more about it than I could, really, for they were doing some dusting on the landing at the time and heard her going on, and they ran down and fetched me up to her. I didn’t ask them about what happened myself, naturally⁠—it doesn’t do for nurses to gossip with the maids behind their employers’ backs. Miss Whittaker said that her aunt had had an annoying communication from a solicitor.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it sounds as though there might be something there. Do you remember what the maids were called?”</p>
			<p>“What was the name now? A funny one, or I shouldn’t remember it⁠—Gotobed, that was it⁠—Bertha and Evelyn Gotobed. I don’t know where they went, but I daresay you could find out.”</p>
			<p>“Now one last question, and I want you to forget all about Christian kindliness and the law of slander when you answer it. What is Miss Whittaker like?”</p>
			<p>An indefinable expression crossed the nurse’s face.</p>
			<p>“Tall, handsome, very decided in manner,” she said, with an air of doing strict justice against her will, “an extremely competent nurse⁠—she was at the Royal Free, you know, till she went to live with her aunt. I think she would have made a perfectly wonderful theatre nurse. She did not like me, nor I her, you know, Lord Peter⁠—and it’s better I should be telling you so at once, the way you can take everything I say about her with a grain of charity added⁠—but we both knew good hospital work when we saw it, and respected one another.”</p>
			<p>“Why in the world didn’t she like you, Miss Philliter? I really don’t know when I’ve seen a more likeable kind of person, if you’ll ’scuse my mentionin’ it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know.” The nurse seemed a little embarrassed. “The dislike seemed to grow on her. You⁠—perhaps you heard the kind of things people said in the town? when I left?⁠—that <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr and I-Oh! it really was damnable, and I had the most dreadful interview with Matron when I got back here. She <em>must</em> have spread those stories. Who else could have done it?”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—you <em>did</em> become engaged to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr, didn’t you?” said his lordship, gently. “Mind you, I’m not sayin’ it wasn’t a very agreeable occurrence and all that, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“But she said I neglected the patient. I <em>never</em> did. I wouldn’t think of such a thing.”</p>
			<p>“Of course not. No. But, do you suppose that possibly getting engaged was an offence in itself? Is Miss Whittaker engaged to anyone, by the way?”</p>
			<p>“No. You mean, was she jealous? I’m sure <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr never gave the slightest, not the <em>slightest</em>⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>please</em>,” cried Lord Peter, “please don’t be ruffled. Such a nice word, ruffled⁠—like a kitten, I always think⁠—so furry and nice. But even without the least what-d’ye-call-it on <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr’s side, he’s a very prepossessin’ person and all that. Don’t you think there <em>might</em> be something in it?”</p>
			<p>“I did think so once,” admitted Miss Philliter, “but afterwards, when she got him into such awful trouble over the postmortem, I gave up the idea.”</p>
			<p>“But she didn’t object to the postmortem?”</p>
			<p>“She did not. But there’s such a thing as putting yourself in the right in the eyes of your neighbours, Lord Peter, and then going off to tell people all about it at Vicarage tea-parties. I wasn’t there, but you ask someone who was. I know those tea-parties.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s not impossible. People can be very spiteful if they think they’ve been slighted.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you’re right,” said Nurse Philliter, thoughtfully. “But,” she added suddenly, “that’s no motive for murdering a perfectly innocent old lady.”</p>
			<p>“That’s the second time you’ve used that word,” said Wimsey, gravely. “There’s no proof yet that it was murder.”</p>
			<p>“I know that.”</p>
			<p>“But you think it was?”</p>
			<p>“I do.”</p>
			<p>“And you think she did it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>Lord Peter walked across to the aspidistra in the bow-window and stroked its leaves thoughtfully. The silence was broken by a buxom nurse who, entering precipitately first and knocking afterwards, announced with a giggle:</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, I’m sure, but you’re in request this afternoon, Philliter. Here’s <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr come for you.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr followed hard upon his name. The sight of Wimsey struck him speechless.</p>
			<p>“I told you I’d be turnin’ up again before long,” said Lord Peter, cheerfully. “Sherlock is my name and Holmes is my nature. I’m delighted to see you, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr. Your little matter is well in hand, and seein’ I’m not required any longer I’ll make a noise like a bee and buzz off.”</p>
			<p>“How did <em>he</em> get here?” demanded <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr, not altogether pleased.</p>
			<p>“Didn’t you send him? I think he’s very nice,” said Nurse Philliter.</p>
			<p>“He’s mad,” said <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr.</p>
			<p>“He’s clever,” said the red-haired nurse.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
