<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX: The Will</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Will</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>‚ÄúOur wills are ours to make them thine.‚Äù</p>
					<cite>Tennyson: <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem" xml:lang="la">In Memoriam</i></cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>‚ÄúHullo! hullo‚ÅÝ‚Äîullo! oh, operator, shall I call thee bird or but a wandering voice?‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Not at all, I had no intention of being rude, my child, that was a quotation from the poetry of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝWordsworth‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ well, ring him again‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ thank you, is that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCarr?‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Lord Peter Wimsey speaking‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ oh, yes‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ yes‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ aha!‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ not a bit of it‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ We are about to vindicate you and lead you home, decorated with triumphal wreaths of cinnamon and senna-pods‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ No, really‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ we‚Äôve come to the conclusion that the thing is serious‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Yes‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I want Nurse Forbes‚Äô address‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Right, I‚Äôll hold on‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Luton?‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ oh, Tooting, yes, I‚Äôve got that‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Certainly, I‚Äôve no doubt she‚Äôs a tartar, but I‚Äôm the Grand Panjandrum with the little round button atop‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Thanks awfully‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ cheer-frightfully-ho!‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh! I say!‚ÅÝ‚Äîhullo!‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI say, she doesn‚Äôt do Maternity work, does she? Maternity work?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîM for Mother-in-law‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMaternity?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîNo‚ÅÝ‚ÄîYou‚Äôre sure?‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ It would be simply awful if she did and came along‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I couldn‚Äôt possibly produce a baby for her‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ As long as you‚Äôre quite sure‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Right‚ÅÝ‚Äîright‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes‚ÅÝ‚Äînot for the world‚ÅÝ‚Äînothing to do with you at all. Goodbye, old thing, goodbye.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lord Peter hung up, whistling cheerfully, and called for Bunter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy lord?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is the proper suit to put on, Bunter, when one is an expectant father?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI regret, my lord, to have seen no recent fashions in paternity wear. I should say, my lord, whichever suit your lordship fancies will induce a calm and cheerful frame of mind in the lady.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUnfortunately I don‚Äôt know the lady. She is, in fact, only the figment of an over-teeming brain. But I think the garments should express bright hope, self-congratulation, and a tinge of tender anxiety.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA newly married situation, my lord, I take it. Then I would suggest the lounge suit in pale grey‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe willow-pussy cloth, my lord‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith a dull amethyst tie and socks and a soft hat. I would not recommend a bowler, my lord. The anxiety expressed in a bowler hat would be rather of the financial kind.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo doubt you are right, Bunter. And I will wear those gloves that got so unfortunately soiled yesterday at Charing Cross. I am too agitated to worry about a clean pair.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery good, my lord.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo stick, perhaps.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSubject to your lordship‚Äôs better judgment, I should suggest that a stick may be suitably handled to express emotion.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou are always right, Bunter. Call me a taxi, and tell the man to drive to Tooting.‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Nurse Forbes regretted very much. She would have liked to oblige <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, but she never undertook maternity work. She wondered who could have misled <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe by giving him her name.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, y‚Äôknow, I can‚Äôt say I was misled,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, dropping his walking-stick and retrieving it with an ingenuous laugh. ‚ÄúMiss Murgatroyd‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know Miss Murgatroyd of Leahampton, I think‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is, I heard about you through her‚Äù (this was a fact), ‚Äúand she said what a charming person‚ÅÝ‚Äîexcuse my repeatin‚Äô these personal remarks, won‚Äôt you?‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat a charmin‚Äô person you were and all that, and how nice it would be if we could persuade you to come, don‚Äôt you see. But she said she was afraid perhaps you <em>didn‚Äôt</em> do maternity work. Still, y‚Äôknow, I thought it was worth tryin‚Äô, what? Bein‚Äô so anxious, what?‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout my wife, that is, you see. So necessary to have someone young and cheery at these‚ÅÝ‚Äîer‚ÅÝ‚Äîcritical times, don‚Äôt you know. Maternity nurses often such ancient and ponderous sort of people‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you don‚Äôt mind my sayin‚Äô so. My wife‚Äôs highly nervous‚ÅÝ‚Äînaturally‚ÅÝ‚Äîfirst effort and all that‚ÅÝ‚Äîdoesn‚Äôt like middle-aged people tramplin‚Äô round‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou see the idea?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nurse Forbes, who was a bony woman of about forty, saw the point perfectly, and was very sorry she really could not see her way to undertaking the work.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was very kind of Miss Murgatroyd,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúDo you know her well? Such a delightful woman, is she not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The expectant father agreed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMiss Murgatroyd was so very much impressed by your sympathetic way‚ÅÝ‚Äîdon‚Äôt you know‚ÅÝ‚Äîof nursin‚Äô that poor old lady, Miss Dawson, y‚Äôknow. Distant connection of my own, as a matter of fact‚ÅÝ‚Äîer, yes‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomewhere about fifteenth cousin twelve times removed. So nervous, wasn‚Äôt she? A little bit eccentric, like the rest of the family, but a charming old lady, don‚Äôt you think?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI became very much attached to her,‚Äù said Nurse Forbes. ‚ÄúWhen she was in full possession of her faculties, she was a most pleasant and thoughtful patient. Of course, she was in great pain, and we had to keep her under morphia a great part of the time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, yes! poor old soul! I sometimes think, Nurse, it‚Äôs a great pity we aren‚Äôt allowed just to help people off, y‚Äôknow, when they‚Äôre so far gone. After all, they‚Äôre practically dead already, as you might say. What‚Äôs the point of keepin‚Äô them sufferin‚Äô on like that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nurse Forbes looked rather sharply at him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid that wouldn‚Äôt do,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúthough one understands the lay person‚Äôs point of view, of course. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCarr was not of your opinion,‚Äù she added, a little acidly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think all that fuss was simply shockin‚Äô,‚Äù said the gentleman warmly. ‚ÄúPoor old soul! I said to my wife at the time, why couldn‚Äôt they let the poor old thing rest. Fancy cuttin‚Äô her about, when obviously she‚Äôd just mercifully gone off in a natural way! My wife quite agreed with me. She was quite upset about it, don‚Äôt you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was very distressing to everybody concerned,‚Äù said Nurse Forbes, ‚Äúand of course, it put me in a very awkward position. I ought not to talk about it, but as you are one of the family, you will quite understand.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust so. Did it ever occur to you, Nurse‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe leaned forward, crushing his soft hat between his hands in a nervous manner‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúthat there might be something behind all that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nurse Forbes primmed up her lips.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou know,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, ‚Äúthere <em>have</em> been cases of doctors tryin‚Äô to get rich old ladies to make wills in their favour. You don‚Äôt think‚ÅÝ‚Äîeh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nurse Forbes intimated that it was not her business to think things.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, of course not, certainly not. But as man to man‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI mean, between you and me, what?‚ÅÝ‚Äîwasn‚Äôt there a little‚ÅÝ‚Äîer‚ÅÝ‚Äîfriction, perhaps, about sending for the solicitor-johnnie, don‚Äôt you know? Of course, my Cousin Mary‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI call her cousin, so to speak, but it‚Äôs no relation at all, really‚ÅÝ‚Äîof course, I mean, she‚Äôs an awfully nice girl and all that sort of thing, but I‚Äôd got a sort of idea perhaps she wasn‚Äôt altogether keen on having the will-making wallah sent for, what?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, I‚Äôm sure you‚Äôre quite wrong there. Miss Whittaker was most anxious that her aunt should have every facility in that way. In fact‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt think I‚Äôm betraying any confidence in telling you this‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe said to me, ‚ÄòIf at any time Miss Dawson should express a wish to see a lawyer, be sure you send for him at once.‚Äô And so, of course, I did.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou did? And didn‚Äôt he come, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly he came. There was no difficulty about it at all.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere! That just shows, doesn‚Äôt it? how wrong some of these gossipy females can be! Excuse me, but y‚Äôknow, I‚Äôd got absolutely the wrong impression about the thing. I‚Äôm quite <em>sure</em> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝPeasgood said that no lawyer had been sent for.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝPeasgood could have known about it,‚Äù said Nurse Forbes with a sniff, ‚Äúher permission was not asked in the matter.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly not‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut you know how these ideas get about. But, I say‚ÅÝ‚Äîif there was a will, why wasn‚Äôt it produced?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt say that, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe. There was no will. The lawyer came to draw up a power of attorney, so that Miss Whittaker could sign cheques and so on for her aunt. That was very necessary, you know, on account of the old lady‚Äôs failing powers.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI suppose she was pretty woolly towards the end.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, she was quite sensible when I took over from Nurse Philliter in September, except, of course, for that fancy she had about poisoning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe really was afraid of that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe said once or twice, ‚ÄòI‚Äôm not going to die to please anybody, Nurse.‚Äô She had great confidence in me. She got on better with me than with Miss Whittaker, to tell you the truth, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe. But during October, her mind began to give way altogether, and she rambled a lot. She used to wake up sometimes all in a fright and say, ‚ÄòHave they passed it yet, Nurse?‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust like that. I‚Äôd say, ‚ÄòNo, they haven‚Äôt got that far yet,‚Äô and that would quiet her. Thinking of her hunting days, I expect she was. They often go back like that, you know, when they‚Äôre being kept under drugs. Dreaming, like, they are, half the time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen in the last month or so, I suppose she could hardly have made a will, even if she had wanted to.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I don‚Äôt think she could have managed it then.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut earlier on, when the lawyer was there, she could have done so if she had liked?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly she could.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut she didn‚Äôt?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh no. I was there with her all the time, at her particular request.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see. Just you and Miss Whittaker.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot even Miss Whittaker most of the time. I see what you mean, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, but indeed you should clear your mind of any unkind suspicions of Miss Whittaker. The lawyer and Miss Dawson and myself were alone together for nearly an hour, while the clerk drew up the necessary papers in the next room. It was all done then, you see, because we thought that a second visit would be too much for Miss Dawson. Miss Whittaker only came in quite at the end. If Miss Dawson had wished to make a will, she had ample opportunity to do so.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôm glad to hear that,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSimms-Gaythorpe, rising to go. ‚ÄúThese little doubts are so apt to make unpleasantness in families, don‚Äôt you know. Well, I must be toddlin‚Äô now. I‚Äôm frightfully sorry you can‚Äôt come to us, Nurse‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy wife will be so disappointed. I must try to find somebody else equally charmin‚Äô if possible. Goodbye.‚Äù Lord Peter removed his hat in the taxi and scratched his head thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnother good theory gone wrong,‚Äù he murmured. ‚ÄúWell, there‚Äôs another string to the jolly old bow yet. Cropper first and then Crofton‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs the line to take, I fancy.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
