<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V: Gossip</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Gossip</h3>
			</hgroup>
<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
			<p>“With vollies of eternal babble.”</p>
			<cite>Butler: <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Hudibras</i></cite>
</blockquote>
			<p>“So you are thinking of coming to live in Leahampton,” said Miss Murgatroyd. “How <em>very</em> nice. I do hope you will be settling down in the parish. We are <em>not</em> too well off for weekday congregations⁠—there is so much indifference and so much <em>Protestantism</em> about. There! I have dropped a stitch. Provoking! Perhaps it was meant as a little reminder to me not to think uncharitably about Protestants. All is well⁠—I have retrieved it. Were you thinking of taking a house, Miss Climpson?”</p>
			<p>“I am not quite sure,” replied Miss Climpson. “Rents are so very high nowadays, and I fear that to buy a house would be almost beyond my means. I must look round very carefully, and view the question from <em>all sides</em>. I should certainly <em>prefer</em> to be in this parish⁠—and close to the Church, if possible. Perhaps the Vicar would know whether there is likely to be anything suitable.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, he would doubtless be able to suggest something. It is such a <em>very</em> nice, residential neighbourhood. I am sure you would like it. Let me see⁠—you are staying in Nelson Avenue, I think <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tredgold said?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge at Fairview.”</p>
			<p>“I am sure she makes you comfortable. Such a nice woman, though I’m afraid she never stops talking. Hasn’t she got any ideas on the subject? I’m sure if there’s any news going about, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge never fails to get hold of it.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Miss Climpson, seizing the opening with a swiftness which would have done credit to Napoleon, “she did say something about a house in Wellington Avenue which she thought might be to let before long.”</p>
			<p>“Wellington Avenue? You surprise me! I thought I knew almost everybody there. Could it be the Parfitts⁠—really moving at last! They have been talking about it for at least seven years, and I really had begun to think it was <em>all talk</em>. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, do you hear that? Miss Climpson says the Parfitts are really leaving that house at last!”</p>
			<p>“Bless me,” cried <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, raising her rather prominent eyes from a piece of plain needlework and focusing them on Miss Climpson like a pair of opera-glasses. “Well, that <em>is</em> news. It must be that brother of hers who was staying with them last week. Possibly he is going to live with them permanently, and that would clinch the matter, of course, for they couldn’t get on without another bedroom when the girls come home from school. A very sensible arrangement, I should think. I believe he is quite well off, you know, and it will be a very good thing for those children. I wonder where they will go. I expect it will be one of the new houses out on the Winchester Road, though of course that would mean keeping a car. Still, I expect he would want them to do that in any case. Most likely he will have it himself, and let them have the use of it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think Parfitt was the name,” broke in Miss Climpson hurriedly, “I’m sure it wasn’t. It was a Miss somebody⁠—a Miss Whittaker, I think, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge mentioned.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Whittaker?” cried both the ladies in chorus. “Oh, no! <em>surely</em> not?”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure Miss Whittaker would have told me if she thought of giving up her house,” pursued Miss Murgatroyd. “We are such great friends. I think <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge must have run away with a wrong idea. People do build up such amazing stories out of nothing at all.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t go so far as that,” put in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, rebukingly. “There <em>may</em> be something in it. I know dear Miss Whittaker has sometimes spoken to me about wishing to take up chicken-farming. I daresay she has not mentioned the matter <em>generally</em>, but then she always confides in <em>me</em>. Depend upon it, that is what she intends to do.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge didn’t actually say Miss Whittaker was moving,” interposed Miss Climpson. “She said, I think, that Miss Whittaker had been left alone by some relation’s death, and she wouldn’t be surprised if she found the house lonely.”</p>
			<p>“Ah! that’s <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge all over!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, nodding ominously. “A most excellent woman, but she sometimes gets hold of the wrong end of the stick. Not but what I’ve often thought the same thing myself. I said to poor Mary Whittaker only the other day, ‘Don’t you find it very lonely in that house, my dear, now that your poor dear Aunt is no more?’ I’m sure it would be a very good thing if she did move, or got someone to live with her. It’s not a natural life for a young woman, all alone like that, and so I told her. I’m one of those that believe in speaking their mind, you know, Miss Climpson.”</p>
			<p>“Well, now, so am I, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood,” rejoined Miss Climpson promptly, “and that is what I said to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge at the time. I said, ‘Do I understand that there was anything <em>odd</em> about the old lady’s death?’⁠—because she had spoken of the <em>peculiar circumstances</em> of the case, and you know, I should not <em>at all like</em> to live in a house which could be called in any way <em>notorious</em>. I should really feel quite <em>uncomfortable</em> about it.” In saying which, Miss Climpson no doubt spoke with perfect sincerity.</p>
			<p>“But not at all⁠—not at all,” cried Miss Murgatroyd, so eagerly that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, who had paused to purse up her face and assume an expression of portentous secrecy before replying, was completely crowded out and left at the post. “There never was a more wicked story. The death was natural⁠—perfectly natural, and a most happy release, poor soul, I’m sure, for her sufferings at the last were truly terrible. It was all a scandalous story put about by that young <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr (whom I’m sure I never liked) simply to aggrandise himself. As though any doctor would pronounce so definitely upon what exact date it would please God to call a poor sufferer to Himself! Human pride and vanity make a most shocking exhibition, Miss Climpson, when they lead us to cast suspicion on innocent people, simply because we are wedded to our own presumptuous opinions. Poor Miss Whittaker! She went through a most terrible time. But it was proved⁠—absolutely <em>proved</em>, that there was nothing in the story at all, and I hope that young man was properly ashamed of himself.”</p>
			<p>“There may be two opinions about that, Miss Murgatroyd,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood. “I say what I think, Miss Climpson, and in my opinion there should have been an inquest. I try to be up-to-date, and I believe <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr to have been a very able young man, though of course, he was not the kind of old-fashioned family doctor that appeals to elderly people. It was a great pity that nice Nurse Philliter was sent away⁠—that woman Forbes was no more use than a headache⁠—to use my brother’s rather vigorous expression. I don’t think she knew her job, and that’s a fact.”</p>
			<p>“Nurse Forbes was a charming person,” snapped Miss Murgatroyd, pink with indignation at being called elderly.</p>
			<p>“That may be,” retorted <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, “but you can’t get over the fact that she nearly killed herself one day by taking nine grains of calomel by mistake for three. She told me that herself, and what she did in one case she might do in another.”</p>
			<p>“But Miss Dawson wasn’t given anything,” said Miss Murgatroyd, “and at any rate, Nurse Forbes’ mind was on her patient, and not on flirting with the doctor. I’ve always thought that <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr felt a spite against her for taking his young woman’s place, and nothing would have pleased him better than to get her into trouble.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t mean,” said Miss Climpson, “that he would refuse a certificate and cause all that trouble, just to annoy the nurse. <em>Surely</em> no doctor would dare to do that.”</p>
			<p>“Of course not,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, “and nobody with a grain of sense would suppose it for a moment.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood,” cried Miss Murgatroyd, “thank you very much, I’m sure⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I say what I think,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood.</p>
			<p>“Then I’m glad I haven’t such uncharitable thoughts,” said Miss Murgatroyd.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think your own observations are so remarkable for their charity,” retorted <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood.</p>
			<p>Fortunately, at this moment Miss Murgatroyd, in her agitation, gave a vicious tweak to the wrong needle and dropped twenty-nine stitches at once. The Vicar’s wife, scenting battle from afar, hurried over with a plate of scones, and helped to bring about a diversion. To her, Miss Climpson, doggedly sticking to her mission in life, broached the subject of the house in Wellington Avenue.</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t know, I’m sure,” replied <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tredgold, “but there’s Miss Whittaker just arrived. Come over to my corner and I’ll introduce her to you, and you can have a nice chat about it. You will like each other so much, she is such a keen worker. Oh! and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood, my husband is so anxious to have a word with you about the choirboys’ social. He is discussing it now with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Findlater. I wonder if you’d be so very good as to come and give him your opinion? He values it so much.”</p>
			<p>Thus tactfully the good lady parted the disputants and, having deposited <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood safely under the clerical wing, towed Miss Climpson away to an armchair near the tea-table.</p>
			<p>“Dear Miss Whittaker, I so want you to know Miss Climpson. She is a near neighbour of yours⁠—in Nelson Avenue, and I hope we shall persuade her to make her home among us.”</p>
			<p>“That will be delightful,” said Miss Whittaker.</p>
			<p>The first impression which Miss Climpson got of Mary Whittaker was that she was totally out of place among the tea-tables of <abbr>St.</abbr> Onesimus. With her handsome, strongly-marked features and quiet air of authority, she was of the type that “does well” in City offices. She had a pleasant and self-possessed manner, and was beautifully tailored⁠—not mannishly, and yet with a severe fineness of outline that negatived the appeal of a beautiful figure. With her long and melancholy experience of frustrated womanhood, observed in a dreary succession of cheap boardinghouses, Miss Climpson was able to dismiss one theory which had vaguely formed itself in her mind. This was no passionate nature, cramped by association with an old woman and eager to be free to mate before youth should depart. <em>That</em> look she knew well⁠—she could diagnose it with dreadful accuracy at the first glance, in the tone of a voice saying, “How do you do?” But meeting Mary Whittaker’s clear, light eyes under their well-shaped brows, she was struck by a sudden sense of familiarity. She had seen that look before, though the where and the when escaped her. Chatting volubly about her arrival in Leahampton, her introduction to the Vicar and her approval of the Hampshire air and sandy soil, Miss Climpson racked her shrewd brain for a clue. But the memory remained obstinately somewhere at the back of her head. “It will come to me in the night,” thought Miss Climpson, confidently, “and meanwhile I won’t say anything about the house; it would seem so pushing on a first acquaintance.”</p>
			<p>Whereupon, fate instantly intervened to overthrow this prudent resolve, and very nearly ruined the whole effect of Miss Climpson’s diplomacy at one fell swoop.</p>
			<p>The form which the avenging Errinyes assumed was that of the youngest Miss Findlater⁠—the gushing one⁠—who came romping over to them, her hands filled with baby-linen, and plumped down on the end of the sofa beside Miss Whittaker.</p>
			<p>“Mary my <em>dear</em>! Why didn’t you tell me? You really are going to start your chicken-farming scheme at once. I’d no <em>idea</em> you’d got on so far with your plans. How <em>could</em> you let me hear it first from somebody else? You promised to tell me before anybody.”</p>
			<p>“But I didn’t know it myself,” replied Miss Whittaker, coolly. “Who told you this wonderful story?”</p>
			<p>“Why, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood said that she heard it from⁠ ⁠…” Here Miss Findlater was in a difficulty. She had not yet been introduced to Miss Climpson and hardly knew how to refer to her before her face. “This lady” was what a shop-girl would say; “Miss Climpson” would hardly do, as she had, so to speak, no official cognisance of the name; “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Budge’s new lodger” was obviously impossible in the circumstances. She hesitated⁠—then beamed a bright appeal at Miss Climpson, and said: “Our new helper⁠—may I introduce myself? I do <em>so</em> detest formality, don’t you, and to belong to the Vicarage work-party is a sort of introduction in itself, don’t you think? Miss Climpson, I believe? How do you do? It is true, isn’t it, Mary?⁠—that you are letting your house to Miss Climpson, and starting a poultry-farm at Alford.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly not that I know of. Miss Climpson and I have only just met one another.” The tone of Miss Whittaker’s voice suggested that the first meeting might very willingly be the last so far as she was concerned.</p>
			<p>“Oh dear!” cried the youngest Miss Findlater, who was fair and bobbed and rather coltish, “I believe I’ve dropped a brick. I’m <em>sure</em> <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Peasgood understood that it was all settled.” She appealed to Miss Climpson again.</p>
			<p>“<em>Quite</em> a mistake!” said that lady, energetically, “what <em>must</em> you be thinking of me, Miss Whittaker? <em>Of course</em>, I could not <em>possibly</em> have said such a thing. I only happened to mention⁠—in the most <em>casual</em> way, that I was looking⁠—that is, <em>thinking</em> of looking about⁠—for a house in the neighbourhood of the Church⁠—so convenient you know, for <em>Early Services</em> and <em>Saints’ Days</em>⁠—and it was suggested⁠—just <em>suggested</em>, I really forget by <em>whom</em>, that you <em>might</em>, just <em>possibly</em>, at <em>some</em> time, consider letting your house. I assure you, that was <em>all</em>.” In saying which, Miss Climpson was not wholly accurate or disingenuous, but excused herself to her conscience on the rather Jesuitical grounds that where so much responsibility was floating about, it was best to pin it down in the quarter which made for peace. “Miss Murgatroyd,” she added, “put me right at once, for she said you were <em>certainly</em> not thinking of any such thing, or you would have told her before anybody else.”</p>
			<p>Miss Whittaker laughed.</p>
			<p>“But I shouldn’t,” she said, “I should have told my house-agent. It’s quite true, I did have it in mind, but I certainly haven’t taken any steps.”</p>
			<p>“You really are thinking of doing it, then?” cried Miss Findlater. “I do hope so⁠—because, if you do, I mean to apply for a job on the farm! I’m simply longing to get away from all these silly tennis-parties and things, and live close to the Earth and the fundamental crudities. Do you read Sheila Kaye-Smith?”</p>
			<p>Miss Climpson said no, but she was very fond of Thomas Hardy.</p>
			<p>“It really is terrible, living in a little town like this,” went on Miss Findlater, “so full of aspidistras, you know, and small gossip. You’ve no idea what a dreadfully gossipy place Leahampton is, Miss Climpson. I’m sure, Mary dear, you must have had more than enough of it, with that tiresome <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Carr and the things people said. I don’t wonder you’re thinking of getting rid of that house. I shouldn’t think you could ever feel comfortable in it again.”</p>
			<p>“Why on earth not?” said Miss Whittaker, lightly.</p>
			<p>Too lightly? Miss Climpson was startled to recognise in eye and voice the curious quick defensiveness of the neglected spinster who cries out that she has no use for men.</p>
			<p>“Oh well,” said Miss Findlater, “I always think it’s a little sad, living where people have died, you know. Dear Miss Dawson⁠—though of course it really was merciful that she should be released⁠—all the same⁠—”</p>
			<p>Evidently, thought Miss Climpson, she was turning the matter off. The atmosphere of suspicion surrounding the death had been in her mind, but she shied at referring to it.</p>
			<p>“There are very few houses in which somebody hasn’t died sometime or other,” said Miss Whittaker. “I really can’t see why people should worry about it. I suppose it’s just a question of not realising. We are not sensitive to the past lives of people we don’t know. Just as we are much less upset about epidemics and accidents that happen a long way off. Do you really suppose, by the way, Miss Climpson, that this Chinese business is coming to anything? Everybody seems to take it very casually. If all this rioting and Bolshevism was happening in Hyde Park, there’d be a lot more fuss made about it.”</p>
			<p>Miss Climpson made a suitable reply. That night she wrote to Lord Peter:</p>
			<p>“Miss Whittaker has asked me to tea. She tells me that, <em>much as she would enjoy</em> an active, country life, with something definite to do, she has a <em>deep affection</em> for the house in Wellington Avenue, and <em>cannot tear herself away</em>. She seems <em>very anxious</em> to give this impression. Would it be <em>fair</em> for me to say ‘The lady doth protest <em>too much</em>, methinks’? The <em>Prince of Denmark</em> might even add: ‘Let the galled jade wince’⁠—if one can use that expression of a <em>lady</em>. How wonderful Shakespeare is! One can <em>always</em> find a phrase in his works for <em>any</em> situation!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
